---
outline: deep
---

![](/img/sveikinimai/neda.jpg)

Dear students, members of the Vilnius University community, and dear VU
SR,

This year has been truly extraordinary - you want to be happy and thank
you, and at the same time, it\'s hard to see how much is going on around
you!

This year we have managed to achieve significant results both in
representing students and strengthening the Organization: the
consultation process of VU SR students has been renewed, the development
of a culture of self-reflection has started, the Organization\'s
strategic action plan has been developed, requirements for higher
education have been harmonised, the financing mechanism of higher
education institutions has been supplemented with an incentive for the
quality of studies, the state budget provides for a larger share of
funds to finance research activities, a preliminary draft of the social
dimension plan has been prepared and the legal status of international
students.

I am proud of the Organization that all this work has been achieved in a
still-pending pandemic situation. I am even more proud that we have been
able to respond quickly and meaningfully to Russia\'s war in Ukraine by
expanding the mentoring program for students from Ukraine, initiating
more financial support, and providing free accommodation at the
University.

This year we completed the three-year project "Improving Public
Governance in Education with the Involvement of Non-Governmental
Organizations", thanks to which VU SR has already expanded the wide
range of topics and issues related to students - we can rely on specific
and research-based data. (which are often difficult or non-existent in
external sources) and have been and will be the subject of significant
proposals and changes for students at both the University and national
levels.

We would not have done all this and many things not yet listed without
solid partnerships and united work together! So I would like to say a
big THANK YOU to everyone who contributed to making it better for the
students and the Organization.

I invite you to get acquainted with the works and changes that we have
created and for which we have laid the foundations!

Unanimously for the Future of Students!

**President of VU SR Neda Žutautaitė**
