# VU SR projects

## Project \"Increasing the involvement of students in fostering academic ethics in the university community\"

Academic ethics – one of the fundamental values of higher education –
is enshrined both in the Law on Science and Studies of the Republic of
Lithuania and in the statutes of higher education institutions,
therefore it becomes an important duty of a higher education
institution. One of the principles of academic ethics, academic
integrity, is a particularly sensitive issue in higher education, the
development of which must be given attention both at institutional and
national level. In order to increase the involvement of students in
fostering academic ethics at Vilnius University, VU SR implemented a
project during which the training and planning of the VU SR program
\"Sąžiningai\" was organized, open training courses were created in a
virtual learning environment about academic ethics, presentations on the
topic of academic ethics were organized for students, the issue of
ensuring academic ethics was raised in the VU SR Parliament and the
position of the organization was consolidated. Next, on this basis, an
advocacy on the topic of academic ethics takes place.

## Project \"ECSTRA: Employability Competencies for Students Through implementation and Recognition of Activities\"

One of the key skills needed to work and live in the 21st century is
initiative and entrepreneurship, i.e., a person\'s ability to turn ideas
into actions. We believe that higher education institutions must help
students(s) acquire these skills, therefore, VU SR is implementing a
project aimed at helping students(s) to acquire competences through
voluntary activities, during which real-life problems would be solved
through social innovations. In order to achieve this, we aim to enable
communities to take the initiative and solve problems themselves, to
develop and coordinate initiatives with a sustainable long-term impact,
and to improve the system of recognition of competences acquired
informally.

On the basis of this project, a canvas model and template adapted for
the development of initiatives, volunteer management guidebook,
trainings for community coordinators, who could expand the development
of initiatives in the institutions and countries participating in the
project, guidelines for the system of informally acquired competences
for the system of crediting of competences acquired in higher education
institutions and crash-course content for future initiative managers and
teams on important topics of organization of activities are prepared.

VU SR is working on this project together with Vilnius University (VU)
Jean Monnet University (UJM) and The University of Granada (UGR).

## Project \"Improving public governance in the field of education by involving non-governmental organizations\"

This year, VU SR completed the implementation of a 3-year project to
improve public management. The essence of the project is to strengthen
the activity and quality of representation of the organizations
participating in the project by improving public governance in the field
of education. After the completion of the project, it is clear that the
implementation of the project allowed the organizations to ensure
high-quality and constant representation of the target group at various
levels during the strategic period. In the context of the project, 20
proposals were submitted to the responsible institutions regarding the
improvement of the education system in Lithuania, 12 studies and surveys
were carried out and their analysis was carried out, and 1 set of
positions was drawn up; various trainings and conferences were organized
both for the development of competences of the members of the
organizations and for the greater involvement of students(s). Thanks to
this project, VU SR has already expanded the wide range of topics and
issues affecting students(s) even more – in our activities we can rely
on concrete and research-based data (which are often difficult or not
found in external sources), and from them significant proposals and
changes are formed for students(s) both at the University and national
level.

Project partners: Knowledge Economy Forum, Lithuanian Union of Young
Scientists, Šiauliai University Students\' Representation and Kaunas
University of Technology Students\' Representation.
