---
outline: deep
---

# Community events

## International Student Day and 32nd birthday of VU SA

On November 17th of each year, it is International Student Day and the
birthday of VU SR. This year, VU SR has implemented a cycle of three
events to commemorate these important dates.

### #ateitieskūrėjai. What can students do?

November 17 The conference "#ateitieskūrėjai. What can students do?"
took place at the VU Scholarly Communication and Information Centre (lt.
MKIC)

- During the conference together with the Chairman of the Education
  and Science Committee of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania
  prof. Artūras Žukauskas and VU SR President Neda Žutautaitė
  discussed the changes in higher education and the impact of the
  changes on the studies and future prospects of each student.
- We also talked with Marius Skuodis, Justinas Jaruševičius, Urtė
  Builytė and Aivaras Vilutis about the international experiences of
  the students and the study period they enriched.
- During the closing discussion, Laima Jasionytė, Chief Specialist of
  the Department of Youth Affairs, Andrius Uždanavičius, former VU SR
  President and the Head of the Study Quality and Development
  Department of VU, Dr. Janusz Korczak, a member of the Council of the
  Lithuanian Jewish Community, Chairman of the Board, Director of
  Partnerships and Communities at OXYGEN, Member of the Board of the
  European Jewish Student Union, and former Vice President Amit
  Goldman sought answers to the question of what one student could
  change at the University and beyond.

### #ateitieskūrėjai. Competence Fair

On November 18th #ateitieskūrėjai took place in VU Central Palace.
Competence Fair - workshops, classes, lectures, during which students
had the opportunity to develop competencies, gain new knowledge and get
acquainted with VU SR programs, clubs and projects, as well as
organizations operating at the University. During the event, we agreed
and had a closer conversation with representatives from the Be etikečių
program, VU Photography Club, Anthoclub, VU SIF and iGEM.

### #ateitieskūrėjai. HackVU

On November 19th we ended the cycle of events with an initiative
development event #ateitieskūrėjai. HackVU, during which students have
developed ideas for the future that can help solve the problems and
challenges that students face at the University.

VU SR came up with ideas to encourage registered participants to join:
Green University. Sustainable goals; How to teach and learn at a
distance; How to promote the development of higher education in the
regions; How to integrate culture into studies; How to increase
students\' digital literacy.

## Unit days

One of the biggest events of VU SR is the days of the units, which have
been going on for an impressively long time and have become an important
and beautiful tradition that promotes the community spirit of the whole
unit and the preservation of student traditions. This year, nine units
celebrated their days and have offered students a cycle of amazing and
diverse events.

### MIDI

After a long break, dictated by the pandemic, VU SA MIF took a full leg
with the slogan \"Rediscover MIDI!\". The largest cycle of mathematics
and computer science events organized by VU MIF students has returned
with traditional, popular events: orienteering competitions, LAN Party,
chess tournament, sports days, conference, corporate fair, battle and
closing evening. First held in 1974, **MIDI** is being held for the 41st
time this year.

### Philologists\' Nights

This year, the university\'s romantics, language lovers and philologists
have invited the entire university community to participate in the
**Philologists\' Nights!** In the language schools organized by VU SA
FilF, participants learned Latvian and Spanish, 14 teams from 7
different faculties gathered in the "I told you I'll think" battle,
which demonstrated their philological knowledge, and at the open
microphone event "Let the words ring" participants read their works, as
well as a student from VU Šiauliai Academy who performed a saxophone
interpretation of the Lithuanian and Ukrainian anthems!

### Political Science Days

**Political Science Days\'22** merged with VU TSPMI\'s 30th birthday
this year, this is the biggest event of this year at the institute,
which brings together a wide but really close community of VU TSPMI!
During the Political Science Days, the week-long events revived the old
traditions of the students, remembered the past and brought innovation.
A series of podcasts po(p)litics, in which Ramūnas Zilnys and Arūnas
Valinskas were interviewed, an escape room where students and other
members of the community tested their knowledge of antiquity and
philosophy, basketball competitions focused on students, teachers, the
administration and even the members of the Seimas, a battle in which
each team was assisted by TSPMI lecturers, an event that encourages
public speaking on important issues in which they remember their study
times and the end of the week - a discussion attended by former
President Dalia Grybauskaitė, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius
Landsbergis and representatives of VU TSPMI, and a community evening for
which they donated the collected money to Blue / Yellow.

### MeDi

**MeDi** is a traditional celebration of the Faculty of Medicine of
Vilnius University, one of the oldest at Vilnius University, since 1783.
This year, VU SA MF implemented a series of events focused on VU MF
students, the VU community, the general public and its health education.
This year\'s theme is addictions. The goal was achieved through public
lectures and activities that were implemented in collaboration with
various organizations, unions, and private companies. The entertainment
was also not forgotten - the night orienteering and the night at the
faculty brought the community closer together than ever before.

### The Fiesta Personae

**The Fiesta Personae**, event of the Faculty of Philosophy, which is
reborn every spring. This year, the phoenix of the Fiesta, together with
the mysterious guest Fortune, brought the celebration back to life with
the opening event of D.I.S.P.U.T.A.S, a delightful event of five
different and diverse institutes and a closing concert of "Bard's
Evening". As always, the newspaper \"Bursa Yard\" was published during
the days of the Faculty.

### Mercury Days

This year, the **Mercury Days** organized by VU SA EVAF delighted us
with the car orienteering competition, the "Be Satisfied with
Mercury'22" eating competition and the quiz following them, the evening
of team games and the closing concert of "Even with Mercury'22". The
events were designed to promote the community spirit of the students
through activities that reduce social exclusion and promote interaction.
One of the methods used to achieve these goals was the translation of
event activities, information and games into English and the active
integration of foreign students. Also, during the activities, the skills
of teamwork, problem solving, analytical and critical thinking of
students were developed.

### TeDi

This year's **TeDi'22 (Lawyers 'Day)** Opening Conference sailed into
international waters. At the event, specialists and legal experts
explored the topic of \"Russia\'s war against Ukraine: law, geopolitics
and morality\". The event was held online, in English. The second \"How
It Was\" event denied the stereotype that the law lives only in a court,
prosecutor\'s office, law firm or other legal institution. The third
event "Auction" gives all participants the opportunity to purchase both
items belonging to VU TF lecturers and to experience unforgettable
moments together with the faculty lecturers. Among the founders of the
prizes are not only VU TF lecturers, but also the Mayor of Vilnius -
Remigijus Šimašius.

The fourth event, \"From generation to generation
with VU TF Alumni\" - the idea, the aim to have a warm and cozy
conversation with people who shared their memories of studying times,
but also insights and advice that are relevant to our young community,
discussed issues of concern. related to study or career topics. The
final conference of VU TF Students' Scientific Society this year brought
together Vilnius University law and other researchers, students and
other legal science enthusiasts to provide an opportunity to review the
innovativeness of this year\'s students in the relationship between
interdisciplinary fields and law. It is the culmination of a six-month
event in which the 6 teams selected by the competent commission to write
the best scientific article presented their work.

### Chemists\' Days

**56th Chemists\' Days**, held at the beginning of the school year, on
September 16th-18th. Through them, VU SA CHGF organized public
laboratory works and colorful chemical shows, which gave the public a
closer look at chemistry and the wonders that can be seen in it, thus
proving that everyone can and should enjoy the wonderful science of
chemistry. Also, a bowling tournament and a BBQ evening were held for
the community of the unit - the events showed that different
generations, even those who have already graduated, can communicate
well, have a good time and build a future together!
