# Integration of students

## VU freshman camps

As every year, VU SR continues the tradition of organizing camps focused
on the integration process of first-year students. In August, before
starting studies at Vilnius University, 18 first-year camps of VU SR
were organized, which were attended by more than 1,100 future VU
students. As the epidemiological situation continued, several-day
outreach camps were abandoned and replaced by shorter one-day camps in
the departments and units of the Botanical Garden of Vilnius University.
During the camps, the first-year students got acquainted with the
University and University's culture, lecturers, alumni and departmental
administrations, learned about the study process and the study
environment. VU SR activities, programs, clubs and projects as well as
students\' opportunities at the University were also presented.

## Curators program

The curator\'s program is a program implemented by VU SR since 2000,
designed to effectively integrate first-year students into the
University community and acquaint them with the study process.
Participants in this program - tutors - are senior students who have
received special training and help the students in their supervised
group during the integration process. For the second year in a row, this
program has expanded its field of activity and has begun to focus on
first-year master\'s students and full-time students from abroad, who
enter the community in the same way as first-year undergraduate
students. They get help from mentors who have received special training.
This year, the curators program attracted more than 200 curators who
took care of the integration of students into the University and
contributed to the implementation of the first-year students' camps and
the first week of integration week.

## Integration festival

For the second year in a row, we have been accompanied by an integration
festival organized by VU SR and VU, dedicated not only to the University
community, but also to the entire city of Vilnius. During it, VU SR,
continuing the tradition, on 31st of August, a discussion festival "Ad
astra" was organized, both in Lithuanian and English. Members of the VU
community, researchers and members of the public expressed their
thoughts on social, equal opportunities, scientific and study-related
topics. At the end of the discussion\'s festival, the students got
acquainted with various student organizations and opportunities for
self-expression in an interactive way at the fair of programs, clubs and
projects of operating organizations and VU SR. The final highlight of
the event is a community concert in the Great Courtyard of Vilnius
University.

## Student procession of VU on September 1

After a year break, the procession of Vilnius University students,
employees and alumni returned to Vilnius University. On September 1st
more than 3,000 members of the VU, adorned with different attributes of
the VU community, wore impressive decorations and shouted traditional
slogans throughout Gediminas Avenue, moved from the Seimas of the
Republic of Lithuania to the Great Courtyard of the VU Central Palace.
Neda Žutautaitė, President of VU SR, and Rimvydas Petrauskas, Rector of
VU, greeted VU SR on the occasion of the beginning of the school year
when everyone gathered in the Great Yard.

## Ukrainian Student Mentoring Program

The initiative is aimed on helping students from different levels and
study programs coming from Ukraine and fleeing war. Every Ukrainian
student who comes to VU is paired with the student(s) studying at the
relevant faculty and study program, who greets him / them, advises him /
them on studies and other relevant issues, helps to integrate into the
faculty and VU community. Currently, more than 270 mentors have joined
the mentoring program and 105 mentors and student pairs have been
formed.
