# Programs, Clubs and Projects

## Start FM

![](/img/pkp-logo/START%20FM%20logotipas.png)

_During the reference period, the radio was headed by Rimantas Murza._

VU Radio START FM is a radio station of VU SR and Vilnius University,
which started its activities in 2005. The only student radio station in
Lithuania provides wide opportunities for self-expression for students:
it helps to prepare future journalists, programmers and specialists in
other fields. START FM also actively supports the dissemination of the
works of young and little-known Lithuanian and foreign performers and
music groups, conducts interviews with alternative music performers,
supports various artistic and social initiatives.

Between 2021 and 2022, an average of 48 hours of original programming
were broadcast per week (the next part of the program consists of
automatic music play), while an average of 42,000 unique listeners per
month tuned in online.

Growth did not stop in the development of cooperation – joint projects
with the Lithuanian Interdisciplinary Artists\' Union, contemporary
serious music festival Druskomanija, informal music creative school
Muzikalkė, radio theatre No tickets were started (the studio recorded
and broadcast on VU radio in the Northern Town, in the competition
Pragiedruliai organized by the Lithuanian Radio and Television
Commission. Recognized as the most original radio show). A 3-minute solo
project was also carried out, during which 32 young Lithuanian jazz
instrumentalists performing 3-minute solo performances were
professionally filmed and recorded. At the beginning of autumn, the
START FM news team, formed from VU students, prepares news reports,
reports on topical topics and interviews every working day.

## VU Debate Club

![](/img/pkp-logo/Debatų%20klubų%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reference period, the activities of the club were coordinated by Robertas Remeika._

VU Debate club – a club, established 2004, to promote communication
between students representing different faculties, to provide space to
develop critical thinking, reasoning, English and public speaking
skills, and to represent the Vilnius University in tournaments.

In 2019 the club was inactive, but this year the enterprising group of
students gathered and was actively preparing for the return of the club.
First, the qualifications were raised and the search and selection
process was carried out in the process of creating the final council.
Secondly, after the preliminary creation of the Council, weekly meetings
were held to raise qualifications and a general decision on the future
of VU Debate club, activities and technical issues. Thirdly, after the
necessary qualifications have been achieved, the council and the
activities of the Debate Society have been finally formed, and in
cooperation with the VU Students' Representative Office (a logo was
created, organizational and technical issues were solved, and the
marketing activities carried out and etc.) was prepared for the opening
of the Society. Other non-profit debate organizations, such as The Youth
Debate, has also cooperated on this issue. Finally, the VU Debate
Society was successfully opened at the first public event held on 21st
of April, 2022.

## SMMS

![](/img/pkp-logo/SMMS%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reference period, the project activities were coordinated by Urtė Marija Kasnikauskaitė._

_Students - for pupils, pupils - for students_ (SMMS) – three-day
camp is organized by VU SR for students of older classes who want to get
acquainted with student life and study opportunities. This year, the
camp was organized face-to-face – due to the prevailing pandemic
situation in Lithuania, this project was transferred to Discord platform
for two years in a row. This year\'s SMMS camp took place at the General
Jonas Zemaitis Military Academy of Lithuania, with which we have been
cooperating for several years. It is very interesting that in such
circumstances the project managed to attract more than 100 students from
all over Lithuania and give them the opportunity to see Vilnius
University, its activities and, together with the curators-students, to
feel true students in the chosen academic core units for at least a day.
This year, students were able to get acquainted not only with the
studies conducted at University, but also with the possibilities of
self-expression – programs, clubs and projects.

## Vilnius University Law Clinic (VU LC)

![](/img/pkp-logo/Teisės%20klinikos%20logotipas.png)

_During the reference period, VU LC was headed by Viktorija Medžiaušaitė_

Vilnius University Law Clinic, established by VU SR and its partners, is
a free legal aid project that provides a real professional practice
opportunity for senior course law students, and offers free legal aid to
the public and promotes legal literacy. VU LC was established 24 years
ago and is still under the auspices of VU SR, Vilnius University and law
firm Ellex Valiūnas.

In 2021, the organization provided legal aid to 6,449 residents. Based
on the feedback from interested parties about the quality of the
organization\'s activities, it can be concluded that VU Legal Clinic
ensures a sufficiently high level of competence and a good service
culture. In 2021, consultations were successfully conducted by phone,
Skype, e-mail. With the pandemic situation, live consultations have
resumed in accordance with all safety measures.

During the reference period, 28 students of Vilnius University performed
compulsory professional or voluntary practice at VU LC, the total
duration of which is 6 months. During the internship, students advised
interested persons on family, inheritance, work, intellectual property,
contracts, real estate, consumers, administrative, criminal law issues.
He also prepared draft contracts, draft procedural documents for
judicial institutions (courts, labor disputes commissions), legal
conclusions.

Vilnius University Legal Clinic actively cooperated with the mass media,
regularly provided legal comments to the most popular portals lrt.lt,
15min.lt, teise.pro, participated in a radio show (\"Radio case\"). 11
publications have been prepared on topics such as: \"Peculiarities of
criminal liability for bribery\"; \"An accident while working remotely -
whose responsibility is it?\" \"Communication with a child is a right
and a duty\"; \"Can an employer terminate an employment contract when it
is not the employee\'s fault?\"; \"Inheritance - what to do if you lose
a spouse?\" \"The right of a person to an image: when is a person\'s
photo published illegally?\" etc.

Together with the Vilnius University Students\' Representative, training
has been prepared for students on the topic of the fundamentals of labor
law, which are publicly available to students of Vilnius University.

The consultants of the legal clinic participated in the project \"Do not
disturb\" of Vilnius Salomėja Neris Gymnasium. During this project,
general provisions on the protection of personal data were presented to
all senior students. Cooperation has been established with the Vilnius
Social Club on the provision of legal assistance to young people and
with the Missing Persons Families Support Centre on the provision of
legal assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings, domestic
violence, relatives of missing persons.

## Vilnius University Student Investment Fund (VU SIF)

![](/img/pkp-logo/SIF%20logotipas.png)

_During the reporting period, the fund was managed by Ieva Turskytė (until January, 2022) bei Gabrielė Stanionytė (from January, 2022)._

Vilnius University Student Investment Fund (VU SIF) is the first and
largest student investment fund in Lithuania established by VU SR,
encouraging young people to take an interest in the world of investment
management and invest independently.

During the reference period, VU SIF successfully organized informative
events. On the 25th of December, 2021, a lecture \"The biggest myths of
investment portfolio management\" was held with Tautvydas Marčiulaitis,
followed by a lecture with economist Greta Krušaitė on personal finances
\"Accumulate, spend or invest?\". Also, on 4th of May, in cooperation
with VU Young Energetics Club, a discussion \"Green Energy in Lithuania,
Development and Investment Prospects\" was organized, which was attended
by Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Lithuania
Arnoldas Pranckevičius, Vice-Minister of Energy Daiva Garbaliauskaitė,
energy supply companies \"Ignitis group\" innovation expert Vincentas
Vitkauskas and Rokas Bancevičius, finance director of the renewable
energy company \"Green Genius\".

During the reference period, a new team of VU SIF organized as many as 6
events. The first event on inflation took place in December, 2021, where
Indrė Genytė-Pikčienė and Marius Dubnikovas shared their observations.
In cooperation with VU SR FEBA, a series of 3 lectures and a brainstorm
\"Investment ABC: where to start?\" were organized in order to help
young people take their first successful steps in investing. In the next
event \"Sanctions against Russia. What impact will this have on us and
the economy?\" Paulius Kunčinas reviewed the current issues in the event
of an emergency in the world. In addition, a podcast was launched on the
new VU SIF YouTube channel with Vilius Oškeliūnas.

The members of the VU SIF team participated in most of the trainings,
during which they learned a number of new things that they applied in
the activities of the organization and participated in a mentoring
program, which promoted the growth, development and communication of
members with former representatives of VU SIF.

Magazine \"Investuok\", UAB Gaudera, The Bank of Lithuania, UAB Gerovės
valdymas, IFSA, Vilnius University Students' Representation, Vilnius
University Business School and Vilnius University has helped to grow and
improve during the reference period to the VU SIF.

## Vilnius University Career Days

![](/img/pkp-logo/KD%20logotipas.png)

_During the reference period, the project was coordinated by Eglė Jašinskaitė_

Vilnius University Career Days is a project of VU SR that allows
students to get acquainted with potential employers, make contacts and
start a career path independently. The project aims to help students
establish themselves in the labor market and become in-demand
specialists in their field.

This year\'s main event VU Career Days 2022 was organized on March
21st - 24th, and on February 22nd and March 3rd, VU Career Day was held
at Kaunas Faculty and VU Career Day at Šiauliai Academy. During the
implementation of the project, 76 companies and financial sponsors were
found. 4 additional events were also organized, during which various
topics related to careers were discussed. A team of 111 managers,
members and volunteers who helped to ensure the smooth running of the
entire project. The biggest changes of this year project are the
organization of additional events, the inclusion of members during
almost the entire reporting period and the organization of individual
events of VU Career Days in VU academic core units that are located
outside of Vilnius. The initiative that we are most proud of is the
Hackathon, during which student teams had the opportunity to win a prize
of as much as 4500 euros, established by FRANMAX.

## Be etikečių

![](/img/pkp-logo/Be%20etikečių%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reference period, the activities of the program were coordinated by Julija Baublinskaitė._

"Be etikečių" - VU SR has been implementing a program active in the
field of reduction of social exclusion and human rights since 2010. This
program aims to promote respect in the VU community, break established
stereotypes and increase the University\'s openness by promoting the
full integration of socially vulnerable groups. The core values of the
program are: equality, openness and respect for the individuality of
each person.

This year, Be etikečių, was focused on individual socially vulnerable
groups. 4 cycles of events and projects were organized: LGBTQ+ Culture
Festival Kultūra visų, Feminism Week, Disability Week and Ethnic
Minority Month. Each of these thematic cycles was aimed at delving into
the experiences of the group represented in it, to introduce both its
achievements and problems, to provide a platform for the
representatives(s) of that group to talk about the aspects of everyday
life and activism that are important to them and them. The traditions of
the program were also continued: in September Be etikečių marched at the
Lithuanian LGBTQ+ pride march, held for the first time in Kaunas; for
the fourth time Halloween was celebrated in the debate on the
stigmatization of psychological disorders in Halofobija; continuing the
long-standing cooperation with the University\'s LGBT+ group, a
discussion was held on the situation of LGBTQ+ rights in Lithuania and
Europe.

In 2021, the program\'s style book was updated and communication on
social media was changed accordingly: the transition was made from
educational content for people who are not exposed to almost completely
socially vulnerable groups, to deeper texts that require a certain
previous acquaintance with the topic presented from the audience, as
well as an effort was made to respond meaningfully to current issues. A
series of recordings #KulturaVisu was continued, presenting to readers
artists from socially vulnerable groups of different directions, and it
was supplemented by a new project #DragZodynelis, the recordings of
which introduce the terms and history of drag culture.

## VU JEK

![](/img/pkp-logo/JEK%20logotipas.png)

_During the reference period, the activities were coordinated by
Klaudija Pukalskaitė_

Vilnius University Young Energetics Club (VU JEK) - VU SR club, uniting
young people interested in various types of energy, economic, political
and technical aspects. VU JEK members share their energy knowledge by
organizing events and disseminating information.

The most important activities of the club this year can be considered
cooperation, establishing contacts with companies and participation in
activities and events organized by other organizations and divisions.

This year, many first-year students of various study programs were
attracted to the club, and the events attracted public interest. The
club focuses on larger projects and has begun to implement them. One
such project is the VU JEK board game or the second issue of Progressus
magazine. Also, this year, the club members had an exceptional
opportunity to visit Antalieptė museum and renovate it during the
trainings.

## ESN VU

![](/img/pkp-logo/ESN%20logotipas.png)

_During the reference period, the program\'s activities were coordinated by Simonas Bendinskas_

ESN Vilnius University is a VU SR program that promotes student mobility
and helps foreign students to successfully integrate at Vilnius
University. The main goal of ESN Vilnius University is to help foreign
students coming to VU to adapt to a new environment, to introduce them
to the study procedure, culture and traditions of our country.

ESN Vilnius University\'s activities were focused on organizing various
events aimed at increasing the integration of foreign students and
promoting community. As every semester, the activity was traditionally
started with Orientation Week, during which efforts were made to
introduce foreign students to each other and provide all the necessary
information about the university\'s life, infrastructure, Lithuanian
culture, students\' opportunities and rights. Taking into account the
pandemic situation, during the year students were provided with all the
necessary and relevant information about covid-19 virus spread
management routes in Lithuania, the restrictions and security measures
applied. At the same time, students were also provided with contact
information in case of infection with the disease.

## Vilnius University Kendo Club

![](/img/pkp-logo/Kendo%20klubo%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reporting period, the activities of the club were coordinated by Vytenis Almonaitis._

Vilnius University Kendo Club is a Japanese fencing studio of VU SR,
which has been operating since 2008, designed for both beginners and
those who want to improve their already existing skills. Kendo Club
seeks not only to promote kendo sports and promote active lifestyle, but
also to bring together students interested in Japanese martial arts, to
promote the name of Vilnius University in Lithuania and the world by
participating in competitions and other events.

During the reference period, the club participated in a contact fair for
freshmen. Due to the pandemic situation in the country, the club, in
compliance with safety requirements, was unable to conduct training and
participate in competitions. Nevertheless, the studio representatives
presented the possibilities of solo and paired training to their
followers on social media and invited everyone to play sports.

## Students' Life Guide (SGV)

![](/img/pkp-logo/SGV%20logotipas.png)

_During the reference period, the project was coordinated by Aurelija Vasiliauskaitė._

The Students' Life Guide (SGV) is a publication of VU SR designed to
facilitate the beginning of the life of freshmen and students coming
from abroad to Vilnius University to study in a new city (or country).
The main goal of the SGV is to promote students\' independence,
activities and, of course, to ensure smooth integration into the ranks
of the largest academic community in Lithuania. In order to achieve this
goal as efficiently as possible, it is ensured that the publication
reaches students no longer in the form of a book, but in the form of a
website sgv.vusa.lt for the second year. For this reason, SGV can be not
only a source of information at the beginning of the year, but also
throughout the year of study, since in this publication you can find all
the necessary information related to the most important processes,
services and leisure time of the University.

## VU Writers Club

![](/img/pkp-logo/Rašytojų%20klubo%20logotipas.png)

_During the reporting period, the activities of the club were coordinated by Nikolajus Elkana Eimutis._

VU Writers Club - a society uniting VU students who are writing and
interested in literature was formed in 2013. The goal of the VU Writers
Club is not only to bring together writers, but also to encourage more
interest in literature, to look at it from the side of the creator,
critic, reader and listener.

Members of the VU Writers Club organize open lectures on the most
interesting literary movements and the most prominent creators of world
and Lithuanian literature, organize reading events of their works,
organize meetings with writers, organize reviews and discussions of
films based on literary works, communicate with actors.

This year, the VU Writers Club paid a lot of attention to public
education: since January, 2022, it was actively started to publish texts
and visual material about various representatives of Lithuanian and
world art fields, prominent personalities on the Instagram account,
which was a great success. We started to share the works of Lithuanian
poets in story format, we published more detailed essay articles on
Facebook account. After the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, we
translated and shared the works of Ukrainian poets on social networks
every day, and in cooperation with the VU Young Journalists
Organization, we read Ukrainian poetry during the debate. We also
collaborated with the Be etikečių program to prepare and evaluate the
competition Metamorphoses: the intersection of ethnic identities as a
starting point for changes in society for students in grades 9-12.

## HEMA

![](/img/pkp-logo/HEMA%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reference period, the activities of the club were coordinated by Gintarė Vaičekauskytė._

VU HEMA (Historical European Marchal Arts) club is a newly started and
formed club. HEMA is a historical European martial arts, long sword
trainings based on information from the textbooks of ancient masters. VU
HEMA Club aims to provide an opportunity for students to practice and
get acquainted with this martial art and encourages them to maintain
physical activity.

During the reporting period, one of the most important tasks of the new
club was to introduce students to HEMA and to the formation of new and
already visiting members of the emerging community. This year HEMA
attended and introduced the club at the Students - for pupils, pupils -
for students (SMMS) camp.

## VU Photography Club

![](/img/pkp-logo/Fotoklubo%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reference period, VU Photography Club was coordinated by Gabija Raubaitė and Andranik Karagezian_

The mission of VU Photography Club is to foster and mature the diversity
and creativity of students through one of the most fascinating art
directions – photography. However, this year we realized that our
mission is also inseparable from constant cooperation with Vilnius
University. We are happy to get the opportunity to provide photography
services to such a wide variety of programs, clubs and projects and to
be able to capture the stories of the University.

This year, our activities focused on 3 main areas: members, VU community
and society.

We tried to create a community for club members, where both
photographers, enthusiasts and advanced professionals interested in
photography could spend time together and share experiences. During both
semesters, we organized activities in groups where we carried out
trainings and various practical classes. At the end of the fall
semester, we organized our first live photography exhibition \"Change\"
in the corridor of the VU Rectorate. For many members of the club, this
was the first photography exhibition in which they were proud of their
work. We also met for the first time with the members of Photography
club alumni, from whom we took inspiration for further activities. We
have repeatedly carried out activities dedicated to the members in two
languages, involving foreign students interested in the club.

We have provided photography services to the VU community almost
everywhere and always. As the spring semester draws to a close, we no
longer even know where to put the photos captured during this year
alone, because our storage is constantly filling up. As they say,
\"sharing is caring\". Guided by this idea, we organized two open
training courses on the basics of photography for the VU community.

After all, we have always tried to remain social and active in public.
We have constantly recorded all sorts of shots – from the brightest
public holidays to the most painful protests. We have remained
indifferent and responsible together with the entire VU SR.

We thank Vilnius University and VU SR as a whole for their uninterrupted
cooperation, close connection and opportunities to grow, act and thrive.

## VU Antroclub

![](/img/pkp-logo/Antropologų%20klubo%20logotipas.png)

_During the reference period, the activities of the club were
coordinated by Ivan Trunov._

VU Antroklub is a community of members of the academic environment that
are interested in anthropology and working in the field of anthropology.

This year, the club organized informal meetings of members, during which
the club members were given the opportunity to discuss their own
research and scientific activities. We filmed episodes of our podcast
Second Conversations (you can find them on our Facebook page). There was
also an event I\'m Gay. I\'m a lesbian. VU students\' research on the
topic of disclosure, which talked about the 2 social studies carried
out.

## Life Sciences Conference The COINS 2022

![](/img/pkp-logo/The%20COINS%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reference period, the activities were coordinated by Daniel Šematovič_

Life Sciences Conference The COINS is a VU SR project organized by
students. It is a scientific event aimed at promoting students\'
scientific activities, interest in the latest scientific achievements
and expanding academic and professional ties. The conference invites
top-level scholars to give presentations at our University, thus
promoting it in the academic international community. In the same way,
we seek to educate students and the public about scientific news, to
allow access to life sciences research, thus encouraging them to choose
their professional path in this particular field.

The (Extra)ordinary COINS 2021 conference took place on February 27,
2021, online, during which lectures were given by prof. V. Šikšnys and
Dr. G. Olendraitė during this conference. The conference bench
presentation session took place online on 30th of March 2021 and
attracted up to 90 speakers. In 2021, two events for students were
organized: bench presentations and article writing workshops, the latter
attracted a lot of interest and attracted more than 150 participants.

The COINS 2022 conference, which was organized this year, took place
online from 28th of February to 3rd of March. A team of almost 40
organizers was formed to ensure that the preparation and all the
activities of the conference went smoothly. The conference was attended
by 130 people a day, and a record number of student bench presentations
were achieved – 125. Lectures were given by 13 top-level lecturers from
abroad on neurobiology, astrobiology, bioinformatics, protein and
genetic engineering, cell biology, including 2016 Nobel Prize winner in
chemistry Sir Fraser Stoddart. During the conference, 3 discussions were
held on the topics of promotion of students\' scientific activities,
biostarters and tissue engineering. Also, a program with laboratory work
and lectures for students was organized and attracted 120 students from
various Lithuanian schools.

## Vilnius University Society of Young Journalists

![](/img/pkp-logo/JŽD%20logotipas.jpg)

_During the reference period, the activities of the society were
coordinated by Gabija Strumylaitė_

28th of August 2021 – the first inaugural meeting of VU JŽD. Since
September the Society has started to carry out active organization
creation activities that unite students from all over Lithuania.

On October 2021 the Society has begun cooperation with the editorial
board of the \"15min\" news site. The members of VU JŽD write texts on
various topics, take photos and videos, and their works are published
with a special tag of the Society of Young Journalists of Vilnius
University
https://www.15min.lt/gyvenimas/naujiena/augintiniai/sunu-vedle-migle-kazenaite-man-parodos-svarbios-ne-tik-del-pasiekimu-1036-1578142.

VU JŽD invites everyone who wants to come to various public events
organized by the society members. On 18th of October 2021, an event with
journalists Rita Miliūtė and Rytis Zemkauskas was held at the Vilnius
University Faculty of History. Edmundas Jakilaitis and Alfredas
Bumblauskas, the initiators of the LRT National Expedition, told more
about it. On March 14th, the VU Faculty of Communication held a
discussion "Ukraine and Russia: how far do the roots of (non)consensus
go?" with Dr. Grigory Potashenko and Doc. Dr. Česlovas Laurinavičius. We
worked together on these events with other VU PCP – VU Photography
Club, VU Writers\' Club.

During formal and informal sessions, the society pays attention to the
comprehensive personal development of its members. On 20th of November
2021 The Faculty of Communication held a creative workshop with an
expert on communication Sandra Galdikaitė. Online lectures-meetings with
professional journalists were organized (lecture \"ABC of article
writing\" on 1st of March 2022 with 15min journalist Violeta
Grigaliūnaitė, meeting with LRT foreign news journalist Benas Gerdžiūnas
on 17th of March 2022).

In 2022, we aim to establish a prize for young journalists. For this
purpose, we cooperate with the organizers of the Romas Sakadolskis,
Academic Journalism Forum. We have already discussed the first possible
regulations for the upcoming competition. We would aim to involve as
many Lithuanian educational institutions, journalistic circles as
possible and young people interested in individual journalism in the
project. The information partners have already agreed to be \"15min\".

In response to the war in Ukraine initiated by Russia, since March we
have become one of the first suukraina.lt partners of the \"Laisvės TV\"
project. A team of 10 VU JŽD members is working on filling in the data
on the website. They search for information about events, organizations
that provide assistance, opportunities to donate things or money, check
sources that announce news about the war, and help to find answers to
the questions that visitors to the page.

VU JŽD seeks to open up the widest possible range of opportunities for
its members, therefore, we cooperate extensively and openly with
journalism centers, professional journalists working in editorial
offices or individually, experts operating in the interdisciplinary
field. We constantly receive offers to come to events of other
organizations, to get involved in projects of various genres. For
example, in April 2022, our member Ūla Klimaševska contributed to the
journalistic investigation \"Jonas and the General: What Links Jonas
Pinskus and Russia\" conducted by the Centre for Investigative
Journalism \"Siena\". Reference:
https://www.siena.lt/news/jonas-ir-generolas-kas-sieja-jona-pinsku-ir-rusija?fbclid=IwAR3ccf0A16JX-6vWs1CN2qSlz_uNd8XMs9AbxC_mvL5ZSGeoHERBBDKJsYM

We constantly think and plan the future activities of the organization,
try to listen as much as possible to the needs of VU JŽD members. In the
near future, we will pay more attention to the deeper integration of
members, strengthening of the interconnectedness (in May, mind battle,
other social type events are organized), we will try to reach more
creative Lithuanian schoolchildren who can reveal their potential within
the framework of the organization. A creative camp is planned for
summer-autumn, we are already considering the autumn season discussions
and public events on the most relevant topics with people operating in
Lithuania and the international space. We will continue to carry out the
organization of the Prize with the most professional journalists in the
country.

## New initiatives

During the reference period, the aim was to significantly expand and
increase the network of student initiatives. To achieve this goal, a
"hackVU" event was organized, during which several new initiatives were
added to our community. The first steps were also started by several
other initiatives – mind battles, music club.

## Charity and support fund "Ateičiai"

Vilnius University Students' Representation founded the charity and
support fund "Ateičiai", which is dedicated to the well-being of Vilnius
University students. The foundation was established to represent the
diverse needs of students.

During the reference period, the charity and support fund "Ateičiai",
distributing merchandise in both physical and electronic stores,
publicized and promoted the name of Vilnius University. This year,
one-day pop-up shops were also organized in various academic core units
of the University, and students were given the opportunity to purchase
merch during the events taking place at the University. In addition,
Fund is expanding cooperation with the University – a cooperation
agreement has been signed with VU Museum on the sale of their products
in the VU merchandise shop (postcards, magnets, etc.). This year the
fund is also continues to collect 1.2% income tax support, which will be
purposefully used for the integration into the University of Ukrainian
students. The funds collected will be used to purchase the necessary
household items, hygiene products or goods intended for the visiting
students(s) and necessities to ensure the quality of a study process.
Last year, support was also collected, and in the current situation in
Ukraine, it was decided to allocate the collected support to the
integration of Ukrainian students who had arrived into the VU community
and to improve their living conditions in Lithuania.

The activities of the Charity and Support Fund "Ateičiai" are socially
responsible and create capital for the benefit of the well-being of
Vilnius University students.
