---
outline: deep
---

# Cooperation

## Cooperation with VU non-academic departments and other organizations

### VU Library

Cooperation with the Library went smoothly. All ideas relating to
assistance to people with disabilities and adaptation of infrastructure
have been adopted and their implementation has begun to be considered.
VU SR shared important events and surveys for the library. There were
monthly meetings, most of them at a distance, a couple of times live.
The opinion of VU SR was taken into account when collecting ideas for a
new strategy and formulating it.

### Universiteto LGBT+ grupė

During the reference period, VU SR\'s \"Be etikečių\" program cooperated
mainly with the University\'s LGBTQ+ group. The group contributed to the
LGBTQ+ culture festival \"Culture for All\" organized by the program
\"Be etikečių\", after which a discussion on LGBTQ+ rights in Lithuania
and Europe was organized together \"At the end of the list: history
repeats itself\".

### KJOSAS

During the reference period, KJOSAS communicated with VU SR in the
Kaunas Faculty. The faculty representatives participated in the general
meeting of KJOSAS members, where a new board, control commission and the
head of the organization were elected. Representatives of VU SR also had
a meeting with the KJOSAS Board to discuss the possibilities for
cooperation.

### VU Sveikatos ir sporto centras

This year, in cooperation with VU Health and Sports Centre, for the
first time, a team of VU Leagues Of Legends was formed, which
represented the University in inter-university competitions. VU SR also
contributed to the orienteering games organized by the Health and Sports
Centre for the birthday of VU.

### LiJOT

Representatives of VU SR went to the conference \"Mental health of a
young person: his own or the state\'s concern?\" organized by LiJOT,
where Neda Žutautaitė gave a presentation. Representatives of VU SR also
contributed to LiJOT initiatives on psychological health. In the post
prepared by LiJOT \"Mental Health. The problem of today or tomorrow\"
Julija Jarutytė shared her thoughts on the mental state of students in
higher education and how it can be improved. At the same time, a
proposal was submitted to the Lithuanian Youth Council on how to improve
the mental health of young people, what measures should be taken to
improve the mental health of young people in higher education
institutions, municipal and national level, and how to promote the
increase of funding for this issue.

### LSMU SA, LiMSA, JGA, Vilniaus universiteto rezidentų taryba

In cooperation with these organizations, a common position on the Law on
Science and Studies Amendment of Article no. XI-242 77, new draft law
aimed that doctors who have completed residency studies with state funds
should work in public Lithuanian personal health care institutions for
several years after graduation. Together with the above-mentioned
organizations, VU SR spoke out against this proposal, arguing that the
problem of specialists in the regions needs to be solved in other ways,
since this proposal is discriminatory in nature, as well as stressing
that this resolution was not consulted with the organizations
representing junior doctors.

### KTU SA

Together with the Kaunas University of Technology Students\'
Representative, a study on the integration of foreign students at the
Universities of Lithuania was prepared for the implementation of the
project of the Ministry of the Interior. Together with KTU SA, questions
were created and data analyzed. The collected data has been submitted to
the Ministry of The Interior.

### ŽEF

The Knowledge Economy Forum (ŽEF) is an association open to all ideas
that promote the growth of the priority area of Lithuania - the
knowledge economy. ŽEF invites the society to work together to create a
more modern future for the country based on modern technologies and
knowledge.

ŽEF experts also participated in the implementation of the ECSTRA
(Employability Competencies for Students Through Implementation and
Recognition of Activities) project.

### VJOS AS

During the reference period, VJOSAS participated in the meetings, the
management club. VU SR representatives also had several meetings with
VJOSAS members, during which we discussed possible issues of further
cooperation.

## International cooperation

1. VU SR has accepted student representatives from the Arqus University
   Alliance (7 can be listed, in addition to Poles and Portuguese).
   Organized a visit, presented good practices, participated in student
   council meetings. (October 3rd-7th)
2. Representatives of VU SR went on a visit to the Universities of
   Helsinki and Aalto in Finland, met with members of their students'
   representations. They gained experience of the structures of student
   unions, students\' organizations, and the students' welfare system.
   He got acquainted with the national social dimension plan and shared
   good practices in representing the university\'s governing bodies.
   (The visit took place during the Ministry of the Interior of the
   Republic of Lithuania project) (October 19-22)
3. VU SR has accepted student representatives from the Warsaw School of
   Economics. Shared good practices in the implementation of student
   businesses and entrepreneurship education projects. A networking
   event with VU SIF, VU CD, VU TechHub was organized. (December
   1st-3rd)
4. Representatives of VU SR visited the partners of the Arqus Alliance
   Network at the University of Bergen in Norway. During the visit, the
   student-led \"welfare\" system, student social businesses and
   student participation in academic activities were studied. (February
   10th-13th)
5. Delegated representatives of VU SR participated in the Arqus Annual
   Conference in Padua, Italy. Dominyka Goldbergaitė, delegated by VU
   SR, became vice-chairperson of the Student Council. Also, during the
   conference, the Student Council adopted a resolution prepared by
   representatives of VU SR on the involvement of the Ukrainian
   academic community in the activities of the Alliance. (April
   2nd-7th)
6. Representatives of VU SR went on a visit to the University of Minho
   in Portugal, which this year became a new member of the Alliance of
   Arqus Universities. In communication with the student union, we
   studied the organization of the activities of student sports
   organizations, the experience of students participating in the
   management of the university. (Ministry of the Interior of the
   Republic of Lithuania) (April 20th-23rd)
7. On 19th-21st of July, 10 delegates from VU SR participated in the
   UNICA conference. This conference attracts hundreds of students from
   all European countries. The main theme of the conference was the
   University after the Covid-19 pandemic. Representatives of VU SR
   became involved in different topics and working groups. The
   conference prepared letters, positions on the development of
   universities after the pandemic. During the conference, students
   from different European countries were met and the European Student
   Union was introduced.
8. The President of VU SR participated in the meeting of the European
   Higher Education Area (EHEA) Bologna Process Follow-up Group for the
   Social Dimension (EHEA BFUG working group on social dimension)
   meeting representing Lithuania. The Group\'s activities are aimed at
   ensuring that the Agreements of the European Higher Education Area
   for the development of the social dimension in the countries are
   implemented, the group is attended by representatives of each EHEA
   Member State.

## Participation in other conferences

### LiJOT conference \"Mental health of a young person: his own or the state\'s concern\"

On 18th of June 2021 VU SR President Neda Žutautaitė participated in the
conference, which discussed who should take responsibility for the
psychological state of young people. In her report, N. Žutautaitė
emphasized that the mental health of students in higher education is not
only their personal concern – we must understand that this is a
question of relations between the academic community, studies and the
environment related to them. The practices applied by foreign
universities aimed at improving the psychological environment and
supporting the creation of a community were also presented.

### Discussion of the Committee on Education and Science of the Seimas \"Social dimension – for the quality of studies\"

On 8th of October, during a discussion organized by the Committee on
Education and Science of the Republic of Lithuania, Neda Žutautaitė had
the opportunity to share the experiences accumulated by VU SR, to
emphasize why it is worth prioritizing the social dimension and what
difficulties students face today before joining, during the period of
accession, during the study period, when entering the labor market and
what we can do to avoid them.

During the discussion, the President of VU SR emphasized that by
developing targeted measures based on good foreign experience, we will
be able to ensure equal conditions for studying all groups of society.

### 4th Student Forum organized by the Centre for Quality and Evaluation of Studies

On 10th of December, the Centre for Quality and Evaluation of Studies
invited students to the forum to discuss the quality of studies and the
involvement of students in order to ensure it.

During the forum, the quality of studies was discussed from the
perspective of the participants – first of all, the students(s) who are
the main axis in the study process – the sooner the higher education
institution accepts this, the easier it is to strive together for the
quality of studies. There was also a discussion about the development of
the career path of the sitter(s) and the assurance of didactic
competences, which is no less important for the quality of studies. All
participants of the forum agreed that not only the functioning of
student representatives is important, but also the feedback provided by
each student(s) in the study process, without which changes are
difficult to achieve.

### Discussion on the psychological state of VU students and support measures at the Meeting of the Council for the Promotion of Mental Health

On 8th of April 2022, VU SR President Neda Žutautaitė participated in a
meeting of the Mental Health Promotion Council, where she discussed how
to improve the mental health of young people. Together with
representatives of STRATA, the World Bank Laboratory, the Department of
Youth Affairs and other youth organizations, it discussed how the mental
health situation is changing both in Lithuanian schools and
universities, and what challenges still exist.

Neda Žutautaitė presented to the participants of the meeting the
problems that most often arise for students(s) and the ways in which the
University community tries to respond to them. Situation is not ideal –
the number of consultations that can be provided is not enough to
respond to the need of students(s), in remote academic departments there
is a lack of live consultations, psychological measures for foreign
students(s) in English are already being started, but not yet developed.

\"I am glad that Vilnius University, both during the COVID-19 pandemic
and now, in the context of the war, can see efforts to allocate
resources to ensure as much as possible that the community and students
can receive psychological assistance when they need it,\" N. Žutautaitė
said in the presentation.
