# Research

## Experiences of the beginning of permanent studies of students from abroad at Vilnius University (VU) and Kaunas University of Technology (KTU)

The research was carried out between 5th of March, 2021, and 21st of
March, 2021, in cooperation with the Students\' Representative Office of
Kaunas University of Technology. The aim of the study was to clarify the
problems of students during the distance learning period and to find out
the factors that complicate integration into the academic community.
About 40% of students said that when they started studying, the
University did not provide enough information on study-related issues.
Only 23% of respondents said that they received help from the university
in the face of a lack of subject knowledge at the beginning of their
studies. The rest try to eliminate the lack of knowledge themselves. The
study also revealed that up to 40% of students experience difficulties
in understanding lecturers or believe that the subjects they study are
prepared superficially. More about the study can be found here.

## Full-time international students' experiences of arriving, studying, living in Lithuania: the perspective of students, experts and stakeholders

The survey was carried out between 1st of June, 2021, and 23rd of
August, 2021, in order to find out the negative experiences of foreign
students who came to study for the entire study period in Lithuania and
the difficulties they face. The research revealed that these students
have many negative experiences when coming to Lithuania, because they
are not considered equivalent residents of the country, and integration
(both cultural and university) must take care of themselves due to
insufficient assistance from the University. The university is
distinguished by two communities of studying: local and foreign
students. They do not receive enough opportunities to communicate with
each other, which leads to a clear separation between these communities,
both in terms of information from the University and in terms of
opportunities to join the activities carried out. The main problems for
foreign students are related to the long and complicated migration
process in Lithuania and the unequal health care system. More about the
study can be found here.

## Study of the conduct and quality assurance of student practices at and outside the University and beyond

The survey was carried out between 16th of August, 2021, and 24th of
November, 2021. The aim of the research was to review the problems of
organizing the practices of Lithuanian higher education students and to
find out the possibilities and emerging difficulties in ensuring and
supervising the quality of the practices performed by students. During
the study, it turned out that the opportunities for cooperation with the
higher education sector are not used in the places of practice, and only
a small part of the students\' practice is based on the introduction of
new competences and solutions into the practice institution. It is also
evident that in the course of the internship process too little
attention is paid to the preparation of the student to perform the
internship, and the assessment of the practice depends not on the nature
of the tasks performed and the activity, but on the report, course or
final thesis prepared by the student. Such an assessment may show not
the practical, but theoretical knowledge of the subject acquired. More
about the study can be found here.

## Study of student scientific activities

The study was carried out between July and December in 2021. The aim of
the research is to review the situation of students\' scientific
activities in Lithuanian universities and to identify why students are
(not)involved in scientific activities, in what forms they can get
involved and how this activity is observed in Lithuanian universities.
The study showed that it is not possible to define exactly how many
students are engaged in scientific activities and what measures should
be taken to assess the situation due to the inaccurate definition of the
concept of scientific activities of students. It is evident that
students do not engage in scientific activities due to lack of time,
lack of motivation or the attitude that they do not have sufficient
knowledge of a particular field. Also, only a small percentage of
undergraduate or master\'s students publish their works, and from the
perspective of universities there is a lack of additional encouragement
to engage in scientific activities. The most pressing problem observed
was that neither universities (only 3 out of 10) nor state institutions
monitor students\' scientific activities, which leads to the fact that
there is no research on the topic of scientific activities of students
in Lithuania. More about the study can be found here.

## Study of voluntary student scientific activities

According to a previous study of the scientific activities of students,
a study was conducted to review what would encourage students to engage
in voluntary scientific activities. The study found that students are
more likely to engage in scientific activities when they value their
studies and learning achievements well. One of the reasons why students
do not engage in voluntary scientific activities is that students do not
know where to turn in order to get involved and where they can carry out
this activity. It is worth noting that although the financial incentive
in the study was not statistically significant, the majority of
respondents would support the idea of providing a financial incentive
for those performing voluntary scientific activities, which would
potentially reduce the appearance of a lack of time or motivation, since
in this case students would not need to Looking for additional work.

## Overview of social dimension measures and their groups

The study was prepared during the autumn semester of 2021. The study
reviews and discusses the most frequently mentioned plans for access to
higher education in the European Higher Education Area. Based on the
practice formulated by the existing plans, a methodology is proposed and
formulated to define the barriers experienced by socially vulnerable
groups in participation in higher education. More about the study can be
found here.

## Review of social dimension measures: what can students say?

The study was prepared during the spring semester of 2022. This study
provides a further analysis of the groups of barriers and measures
experienced by students previously presented. This study has implemented
intelligence focus groups to provide examples in summarizing and
clarifying the barriers faced by socially vulnerable people. There is
also an overview of similar, broader studies, the methodology of which
can be used to develop data and analysis-based solutions for the
development of plans for access to higher education.

## Study of the integration of freshmen into the university

VU SR conducted a study on the integration of freshmen year students.
The aim of the research is to find out the effectiveness of the
activities carried out by VU and VU SR and involvement in the successful
process of integration of freshmen students. A total of 825 students
participated in the survey, of which 61 were foreign students. From the
answers it can be concluded that during the first week of study, most of
the freshmen participate in the events organized in the academic core
unit and the meetings of the curators with the groups of their study
program. Also, the majority of respondents said that the Contact Fair,
which took place during the Integration Festival, was the most helpful
for getting to know the University. During the survey, it turned out
that the majority of respondents know the basic norms of academic ethics
at VU and believe that their course is dominated by a good atmosphere
and knows how their study program is drawn up. You can read more about
the study here and get acquainted with the results of the study here.
