---
outline: deep
---

# Representation at VU

## VU Board

_Student representatives - Neda Žutautaitė, Justinas Kondratas_

VU Board -- the governing body of the University, which supervises
whether the activities and management of the University are in line with
the mission, vision, values and principles of the University, general
academic interests, requirements for publicity and accountability to the
public established in the Statute.

During the reference period, the composition of the Board changed due to
a change in the external representative of students. Support for the
student synthetic biology competition-project iGEM. Infrastructure
projects dedicated to the development of faculties, the Science Centre
of the Vilnius University Faculty of Medicine have been approved,
providing funds for the development of new dormitories in the future.
The procedure of remuneration of University employees has been updated,
the University\'s budget for 2022 has been approved, which provides for
additional funds for psychological assistance and provision of
consultations to the University community, and the amount of funds
allocated for scholarships has been increased. Vilnius University\'s
activity report for 2021 and the 2021 revenue and expenditure estimate
implementation report were approved.

## VU Senate

_VU Senate Student representatives:_

- Senate Board -- Arnoldas Solovjovas
- Committee on Studies -- Kornelija Buivydaitė, Julija Jarutytė,
  Justas Kvederavičius
- In the Committee on Quality and Development -- Ugnė Bičkauskaitė,
  Andželika Jankauskytė, Vanesa Ražinskytė
- In the Scientific Committee -- Arnoldas Solovjovas, Daniel Šematovič

The VU Senate is the governing body of the University consisting of
members of the academic community of VU. The Senate is responsible for
supervising and improving the quality of studies, fostering freedom of
culture, science, research and teaching at the University. The work of
the VU Senate is organized by the Senate Panel, which considers the
agendas of the VU Senate and submits proposals to them, is responsible
for the managerial part of the work, but does not take any decisions.
The work of the Senate is divided into 3 main areas of activity. The
Committees on Studies, Science and Quality and Development shall examine
the issues relevant to their field of activity and submit their
conclusions for approval to the VU Senate. During the reporting period,
the outgoing training of the VU Senate took place.

For students, the most important issues discussed in the Senate are:

**What was considered:** The election of a new Senate.

**What was decided:** the composition of the new Senate changes up to 46
persons, including one representative from the divisions of VU sui
generis -- Šiauliai Academy and Business School. With the increase in
the number of students in the Senate, the number of student
representatives increases to 9.

**What was considered:** Registration of new study programs.

**What was decided:** Three new first (bachelor\'s) degree programs were
registered: Global Challenges Policy at the Institute of International
Relations and Political Science, Cosmetic Chemistry at the Faculty of
Chemistry and Geosciences, Mathematics Teaching and Education at the
Faculty of Mathematics and Informatics.

**What was considered:** Gender sensitive guidelines and gender equality
plan.

**What was decided:** The guidelines were prepared as a measure provided
for in the Strategy for Diversity and Equal Opportunities of Vilnius
University for 2020-2025, which was approved in previous years during
the Senate session. The guidelines were discussed in the Senate. You can
get acquaintedhere. The gender equality plan was approved at a Senate
hearing in December after several debates. You can get acquainted here.

**What was considered**: Update of the residency study regulation.

**What was decided**: The updates of the VU residency study regulation
have been approved.

**What was considered**: Self-analysis of Vilnius University.

**What was decided**: External accreditation of the institution takes
place every seven years, for which self-analysis of the institution, in
this case VU, is carried out. The self-examination has been presented to
the Senate and will be met with experts for further discussion.

## VU Rectorate

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The Rectorate discusses all the most important issues of VU, submits
comments and comments from the departments before taking decisions and
submits conclusions to the VU Board, the Senate and the Rector, who
accepts them.

During the reference period, the description of the procedure for the
use of the Doctoral Fund was discussed and updated, giving doctoral
students greater freedom to use the funds allocated to themselves, the
concept of health promotion and sport, and guidelines for language
policy were discussed. The description of the procedure of salaries of
employees was considered, the organization of lifelong learning
activities at Vilnius University was discussed. The future procedure for
the promotion of employees for their contribution to the quality of
studies was also discussed, which will contribute to greater involvement
in the processes of improvement of the quality of studies in the
departments. The annual report was heard and the self-analysis document
was discussed, which will be submitted for institutional evaluation. The
actions and plans of VU regarding the war in Ukraine were constantly
shared. The student\'s representative presented the research of VU SR
students\' research activities and the Rectorate discussed how each
academic unit can contribute to an even greater attraction of students
to scientific activities.

## Commissions formed by the Senate of Vilnius University

### VU Central Dispute Resolution Commission

_Student representatives - Ugnė Bičkauskaitė, Augustė Grakavinaitė, Simonas Granskas_

The commission hears complaints about decisions of departmental dispute
resolution commissions and disputes between students and central
administration staff. During the refrence period, 3 meetings were held,
during which 2 statements were considered.

### VU Central Commission for Academic Ethics

_Student representatives -- Jorigis Jonas Marčėnas, Ilijas Kulinič (until March 2022), Aistė Rinkevičiūtė (until March 2022), Dominyka Goldbergaitė (from March 2022), Laura Mackevič (from March 2022)._

The Commission investigates complaints from members of the academic
community about breaches of academic ethics. During the reference
period, 9 meetings of the commission were held (3 of them electronic),
in which 6 applications were examined.

### VU Bendrųjų universitetinių studijų komisija

_Student representatives - Augustė Grakavinaitė, Andželika Jankauskytė_

The GUS Commission is responsible for the implementation of the GUS
concept at the University, monitors the implementation of GUS subjects
and ensures their quality. There were 4 meetings during the reference
period. During them, new and updated GUS subjects, which are carried out
in Lithuanian and English, were examined, considered and approved.
During this period, there was also a review of GUS subjects: the oldest
GUS subjects were reviewed, student reviews were analyzed, notes were
made to update the subject descriptions. During the meetings, the
feedback from students of the 2020-2021 spring semester was examined
about the selected oldest GUS subjects, their statistics and analysis.

During the reference period, new GUSs were approved and submitted to the
Senate for consideration:

- Plants in the context of biodiversity;
- Deaf culture;
- Gender in culture;
- Mass Atrocities & International Intervention;
- The world of medicinal chemistry;
- Music in the context of European culture;
- The family in society: change and diversity;
- Modern art.

During the reference period, the following was updated and accepted:

- Personality and its becoming;
- Communication psychology;
- Psychology;
- Social entrepreneurship;
- Sociology;
- Applied Social Psychology;
- Human evolutionary psychology.

During the reference period regularly reviewed, submitted for adjustment
and updated GUSs:

- Asian popular culture;
- Basics of animal behavior;
- Political philosophy;
- Digital culture.

### VU Central Electoral Commission

_Student representative - Dominyka Goldbergaitė_

The Central Electoral Commission -- responsible for the proper
organization of elections to the governing bodies of the University,
registration of elected members of the Senate and the Board, and
determination of the results of the rector\'s elections.

During the reference period, 9 meetings were held, 4 of which were
online. During them, the composition of electoral committees of all core
academic units of Vilnius University and the preliminary schedule of
senate elections were approved.

### VU Emeritus, Affiliation and Honorary Names Commission

_Student representative - Julija Jarutytė_

The Commission considers and submits to the VU Senate for approval
nominations to receive the names of professor emeritus, affiliate
professor, associate professor, researcher and honorary doctor, alumni
or patron of Vilnius University.

During the reporting period, 3 meetings were held, where 3 candidatures
were considered for the award of the title of the emeritus professor
(approved 2), 4 candidatures to the affiliate professor (approved 4), 3
candidatures for the award of the names of an affiliate scientist
(approved 3), 2 candidatures for the award of the title of patron of
Vilnius University (approved 2), and it was decided to award the
honorary doctorate titles to Prof. Andrew Bush and Prof. Thomas
Chung-Kuang Yang.

## Commissions formed by Order of Rector of Vilnius University

### VU Admission Commission

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The Commission considers and submits to the Rector of the University for
approval the candidatures of lecturers and researchers for academic
positions. Based on student surveys, teaching experience, and planned
academic activities, the student representative suggested that not all
applications be approved based on the data listed above.

### VU One-Time Social Scholarship Distribution Commission

_Student representatives - Ieva Budreikaitė, Ieva Šiaudvytytė, Raimondas Šiškevičius_

One-time social scholarships are support provided by the University to
students who are experiencing difficulties that have affected their
lives financially: severe illness of a student or relative, death of a
relative, disability and other special situations. During the reference
period, 3 meetings were held with 86 scholarships for 25 874 euros.

### VU One-Time Target Scholarship Distribution Commission

_Student representatives - Ieva Budreikaitė, Raimondas Šiškevičius_

One-time targeted scholarships are incentive support provided by the
University to students who actively participate in social, scientific,
cultural or sports activities and represent and promote the name of the
University through their achievements. During the reporting period, 738
scholarships were awarded for 92 463 euros.

### VU Commission for Providing Pedagogical Titles of Professor and Associate Professor

_Student representative - Ugnė Bičkauskaitė_

The Commission considers and submits to the Senate for approval the
candidatures of teachers for the award of pedagogical titles. 1 meeting
took place during the reporting period.

## VU Commission for the Recognition of The Best Teachers

_Student representative - Arnoldas Solovjovas_

The Commission considers the activities of the candidates and makes
recommendations to the Rector on the recognition of candidates as the
best teachers of the year. Candidates from lecturers proposed by Vilnius
University students are provided by the administration of the core
academic unit together with the VU SR unit.

During the reference period, 1 meeting of the Commission was held.
During the meeting, 15 of the best lecturers of the University were
selected from the candidates nominated by the units, who were later
awarded the Rector\'s Prize.

The best teachers\' prizes of 2021 were awarded this year:

- Rasa Šimanauskienė, Associate Professor at the Faculty of Chemistry
  and Geosciences;
- Sigitas Urbonavičius, Professor of the Faculty of Economics and
  Business Administration;
- Julija Korostenskienė, Professor of the Faculty of Philology;
- Kristupas Sabolis, Professor of the Faculty of Philosophy;
- Mikas Vengris, Professor of the Faculty of Physics;
- Renata Gudiukaitė, Associate Professor at the Life Sciences Centre;
- Eugenijus Saviščevas, Associate Professor at the Faculty of History;
- Jurgita Astrauskienė, Assistant at the Kaunas Faculty;
- Viktoras Denisenko, Associate Professor at the Faculty of
  Communication;
- Viktoras Skorniakovas, Associate Professor at the Faculty of
  Mathematics and Informatics;
- Romas Švedas, Associate Professor of partnership at the Institute of
  International Relations and Political Science;
- Dovilė Pūraitė-Andrikienė, Assistant professor of the Faculty of
  Law;
- Mindaugas Laužikas, Professor of the Business School;
- Diana Ramašauskaitė, Professor of the Faculty of Medicine.

### VU Pedagogue Training Development Committee

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The Committee was formed in order to prepare the concept of development
of pedagogical education at Vilnius University. To achieve this goal,
21st century pedagogical concept ideas generation sessions were
organized in the University community, which were also attended by
student representatives.

## Working groups and commissions set up for the implementation of the Strategic Plan of Vilnius University for 2021--2025

### Working Group on the Implementation of the Activities of the Strategic Plan of VU 2021--2025 \"Increasing student choice and multidirectional opportunities\"

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The working group was set up to implement the increase of students\'
choice and multidirectional possibilities by opening up 60 ECTS for a
free choice in undergraduate and integrated studies. The working group
submitted proposals from VU SR to increase the choice based on the good
practices of foreign universities and to improve the system of academic
support that will be necessary after the release of study programs. At
the moment, initial agreements have been reached, a version of the
update of the Study Regulations of Vilnius University is being prepared,
which will define the main conditions for such an organization of the
study model.

### Working Group on the Renewal of the Quality Manager of Studies at VU

_Student representative - Dominyka Goldbergaitė_

The working group was set up after the approval of the University\'s new
strategic action plan, which provided for the renewal of the existing
studies quality manual. The update of this guide is aimed at refining
the system of improving the quality of studies, detailing
responsibilities, aligning the manager with the ESG, setting indicators,
etc.

During the meetings of the working group, thoughts about the quality of
studies were shared, the introduction of the quality of studies
headperson was arranged, and it was agreed what processes will be
described. The working group has allocated its duties and will continue
to work on the renewal of this manual.

### VU Commission on Study Internationalization Initiatives

_Student representative - Ugnė Bičkauskaitė_

Applications for international initiatives have been submitted to the
Commission, after which a decision is taken on the allocation of funds
for their implementation. There were 4 meetings during the reference
period.

### VU Commission for Educational Initiatives

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The Commission of Educational Initiatives is a newly formed commission
that considers, approves and allocates funds for the initiatives of
lecturers aimed at improving the study process, subjects, their
teaching, increasing the involvement of students and implementing
innovative educational ideas, for which standard resources are not
always sufficient. This year, 27 applications and initiatives have been
approved by the Commission for Educational Initiatives.

## Scholarship Committees and Working Groups

### VU Scholarship Working Group

_Student representatives - Lijana Savickienė, Neda Žutaitaitė_

A working group has been set up by VU to update the Scholarship
Provisions in order to review the existing forms of student support, to
make the current distribution of scholarships more effective, to provide
for appropriate new forms of scholarships for both support and
promotion. The work of the working group continuous, improvements are
currently planned for the award of incentive scholarships, changing the
procedure for disbursing the scholarship and without providing for two
different sizes. Also, a new scholarship model is being developed for
the development of support for students with the lowest incomes, so that
they can study and achieve academic results instead of working,
providing cash support for a fixed amount of support throughout the
year, and, if certain achievements are achieved, by encouraging
additional ones.

### VU 450th Anniversary Scholarship

_Student representatives - Ugnė Bičkauskaitė, Ieva Budreikaitė, Raminta Klimaitė_

The VU 450th Anniversary Scholarship is a support provided by the
University to prospective students from socially vulnerable groups. 100
prospective students are paid a scholarship of 200 euros every month
from September to June in the first year of study in order to reduce the
problem of social exclusion.

### VU Tech Hub stipendijų komisija

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

Vilnius University Technology Hub (VU Tech Hub) has announced a
competition for a nominal scholarship for the best final thesis prepared
during studies. A grant of EUR 300 was awarded to the authors of the
final thesis in the following categories:

- \"Technological development of society\" -- for the best work
  exploring and presenting technological solutions that determine the
  development of society;
- \"Societal challenges in the age of new technologies\" -- for the
  best work exploring the impact of robotics, digitalization and
  artificial intelligence on the development of society and its
  institutes;
- \"Innovation for life\" -- for the best work that offers a
  technological solution to meet the needs of society;
- \"Best interdisciplinary work\" -- for the best work, which deals
  with topical complex problems and combines research methods in
  different fields of science.

During the reference period, 1 online meeting of the Commission was
held, where the winners were selected.

### VU Lithuanian Nominal Scholarship Commission

_Student representative - Elena Pranevičiūtė_

The scholarship is awarded to students of Chemistry and Geosciences, the
Faculty of Medicine and the Life Sciences Centre Chemistry,
Biochemistry, Microbiology and Biotechnology and Medical Study Programs,
well-educated and disadvantaged students of 1st cycle (Bachelor\'s) 2-4
courses, 2-6 courses of integrated studies and 2nd cycle (master\'s)
studies. During the reference period, 1 meeting of this commission was
held, where the scholarship was awarded to 3 students.

### VU Commission for awarding nominal scholarships of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania

_Student representative - Daniel Šematovič_

The purpose of the Scholarship of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (GDL) is
to support and assist citizens of the Republic of Ukraine and the
Republic of Belarus who have been admitted to study in the first, second
and integrated study programs of Vilnius University. This scholarship is
awarded only in the first year of study. In the fall semester, 26
scholarships were awarded. In the context of the Russian war in Ukraine,
the GDL nominal scholarship was awarded to all citizens of the Republic
of Ukraine who, due to the war, decided to extend their studies at
Vilnius University.

### VU SBA Group Nominal Scholarship Award Commission

_Student representative - Daniel Šematovič_

The purpose of the nominal scholarship of the SBA Group is to help
citizens of the Republic of Belarus, who have been affected by the
repressions of the regime of the Republic of Belarus, who have been
admitted to study in the first, second and integrated study programs of
Vilnius University and who wish to obtain higher education in Lithuania.
During the reference period, 1 meeting of the Commission was held,
during which 16 scholarships were awarded.

## Permanent departments, committees and commissions

### Representation of students of the third (doctoral) cycle of studies

During the reference period, 2 meetings were held with doctoral
students, VU Rector and the Vice-Rector of Science. During the meetings,
the most relevant problems faced by students of the third cycle of
studies were discussed.

After the second meeting, an informal group of VU doctoral students was
formed at the initiative of VU SR, consisting of at least one
representative from each academic unit of VU. The aim of this group is
to analyze the existing problems of 3rd cycle students, to set
priorities, to improve the representation of VU SR doctoral students and
to submit proposals for possible solutions to the challenges that
doctoral students face. The group plans to continue its meetings on a
monthly basis.

### Study program committees

Study Program Committees (SPC) are academic entities coordinating study
programs and supervising their implementation. The SPC ensures the
integrity of the objectives of the study program, the developed
competencies, content, methods and assessments of student achievement
and improves the study program by analyzing the opinion of students,
lecturers, graduates, social partners and other indicators of the
quality of the implementation of study programs. The SPC consists of at
least 3 lecturers, at least 1 social partner and at least 1 student
representative.

In order to ensure effective representation of students in the SPC, the
competences of student representatives were raised: central and
departmental trainings were organized, where the students\'
representatives got acquainted with the activities of the SPC, the
results of the collection of opinions and meetings in simulations, and
the experience of other student representatives were familiarized. The
students\' representatives also took a test for them, which showed the
level of their academic knowledge and gaps. During the reference period,
student representatives collected students\' opinions by questionnaire,
virtual target groups or a mixed method, and the collected and
systematized data were used and presented during the meetings of the
SPC. During the SPC meetings, the issues of flexibility of studies,
electives, content of subjects and updating of descriptions were most
often discussed.

### Meetings of Vice-Deans of Academic Affairs

_Student representatives - Margarita Aleksynaitė, Arnoldas Solovjovas_

During the meetings of the Vice-Deans of Academic Affairs, conclusions
and recommendations for improving the University\'s study activities are
prepared. These meetings are attended by all deputy heads of core
academic units of the University responsible for studies and
representatives of students.

During the reference period, 8 meetings of vice-deans of academic
affairs were held. During the meetings, the progress of studies in the
departments was discussed, which was particularly relevant due to the
constantly changing state requirements for controlling the Covid-19
pandemic in the country, the execution of GUS subjects in different
semesters was discussed, and the results of the graduate survey were
presented. The meetings coordinated such documents as the Study
Regulations of Vilnius University, a description of the procedure for
the preparation, approval and registration of study programs,
improvement, evaluation and accreditation of studies and continuous
activities after external expert evaluation, a description of the
procedure for accounting the working time of lecturers and a draft
guidelines for the assessment and level of pedagogical competences. A
description of the procedure for promoting the contribution to the
quality of studies was also coordinated at the meetings. There was also
a discussion on the support and admission of Ukrainian students to the
university.

### Advisory Committee on the Appointment of VU Partnership Professors and Associate Professors of Partnership

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The Committee shall submit an opinion to the Rector of VU on the award
of positions of VU partnership professors and associate professors of
partnership. These positions allow lectures at Vilnius University to be
given to famous Lithuanian business representatives, diplomats and other
specialists in their fields who hold managerial positions or have
extensive practical work experience.

During the reference period, 2 committee meetings were held, during
which the student representative provided the students\' opinion about
the candidates and evaluated them. 66 candidates were approved for the
position, 1 candidate for fixed controversial feedback from students was
given a compromise decision at the faculty level and the contract was
concluded for a period of one year.

## Temporary working groups

### VU Student Services Working Group

_Student representative - Arnoldas Solovjovas_

The aim of the Student Services Working Group is to refine all services
provided by VU to community members, to analyze the model of services
provided by foreign universities. The aim is to optimize the services
currently provided, as some of them are provided by different
departments or centers and do not reach the target audience. There were
3 meetings during the reference period. The working group held meetings
with students, where they were questioned about the services provided by
VU and their quality.

### VU Covid-19 Working Group

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The Working Group has been set up to coordinate the University\'s
actions and processes in response to the conditions and limitations of
the pandemic. In the context of the working group, recommendations are
proposed for the organization of the study process, compliance with
security requirements, verification of passports of possibilities,
provision of conditions for the accommodation of students in
dormitories, while additional security measures were necessary.

### VU Working Group on the Situation of Ukraine

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The working group was set up taking into account the situation of the
war in Ukraine and was dedicated to the coordination of the
University\'s actions, initiatives and communication in providing
assistance to the Ukrainian academic community, incoming students,
employees, Ukrainians currently studying. In the context of the working
group, the proposals of VU SR were presented and it was agreed to exempt
Ukrainian students from fees for dormitories, to increase financial and
psychological support and to implement other initiatives.

### VU Emotional Well-being Working Group

_Student representatives - Julija Jarutytė, Neda Žutautaitė_

The Emotional Well-being Working Group was set up to create a system for
ensuring emotional well-being at the University. During the reference
period, 3 working group meetings were held, during which the good
experiences of foreign and Lithuanian universities in the process of
strengthening emotional well-being were presented, and the objectives of
the program of emotional well-being at the University were raised.

### VU VUSIS3 Project Expert Working Group

_Student representative - Arnoldas Solovjovas_

The VUSIS3 project working group has been set up for the planned
renovation of the Vilnius University information system. During the
reference period, 3 working group meetings were held, during which
proposals for a new version of the system were submitted to the winning
company for system programming.
