---
outline: deep
---

# Representation in the national space and city government

## Representation in the national space

### Presidency of the Republic of Lithuania

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

During the reference period, Neda participated in meetings and
discussions organized by the Presidency of the Republic of Lithuania on
the welfare of an inclusive society in the context of the state, the
situation of access to higher education and the situation of Ukrainian
students in Lithuania.

Proposals were submitted to the amendment to the Law on Science and
Studies initiated by the President of the Republic of Lithuania in order
to provide for alternative access to higher education, to unify the
admission requirements for students in state-funded and non-funded
places and to define the concept of social dimension.

The proposal submitted on behalf of VU SR to the concept of the social
dimension of higher education did not support the proposals that do not
respond to the meaning of the social dimension, unequally increase the
accessibility of higher education for less represented groups and create
different conditions for those seeking higher education. Participated in
further discussions and meetings during the preparation of project edits
by submitting proposals.

### Committee on Education and Science of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

Participated in the meetings of the Committee to discuss all issues
related to higher education, to discuss, make suggestions, express
students\' opinions and provide expert insights. Proposals were made to
consider the definition of academic ethics and to review the functions
of the controller of academic ethics and procedures.

Proposals have been made for amendments to the Law on Science and
Studies regarding the change in the funding of studies and study
institutions for studies, supporting the aim to encourage not only the
admission of as many students as possible, but also to take into account
the quality of studies and provide quality criteria. VU SR advocated
equal requirements for admission to higher education institutions for
both state-funded and non-state-funded places, realizing that readiness
to study is one of the essential preconditions for ensuring the quality
of studies.

A proposal has been made for the definition of the social dimension in
higher education, the principles of forming an alternative pathway,
which should allow access to higher education for less represented
groups, but not to create a situation where the alternative path simply
increases mass.

In the discussion "Social Dimension - for the Quality of Studies" a
report was shared sharing the experience gained at VU SR, emphasizing
why it is worth prioritizing the social dimension and what difficulties
students face before, during, during the transition to the labor market
and what we can do to avoid them.

Participated in the meetings of the Cooperation Group between the
Provisional Seimas and the academic community.

### Committee on Health Affairs of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania

_Student representatives - Neda Žutautaitė, Kamilė Marcinkevičiūtė_

Participated in the meetings of the Subcommittee on Mental Health,
shared initiatives on the promotion of mental health, and expressed the
need to improve mental health care activities.

Represented medical students and residents in order not to approve the
draft amendment to the law, which proposes to work in regional primary
health care institutions for graduates of state-funded residency studies
for 2-4 years. The item was removed from the agenda.

### Government of the Republic of Lithuania

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

During the reference period, Neda participated in inter-institutional
meetings and plenary meetings of the Government of the Republic of
Lithuania on issues related to amendments to the Law on Science and
Studies of the Republic of Lithuania. Contributed to the preparation of
government conclusions on draft laws.

Participated in an academic breakfast with the Prime Minister and the
Minister of Education, Science and Sport, discussing the social
dimension and the inclusion of more vulnerable groups in higher
education, funding for research activities and residency studies.

Following the proposal of VU SR, the funding for research activities
provided for in the Government\'s initial budget plan was increased,
including the increase of students\' research activities and projects,
doctoral study places, postdoctoral internships, and an agreement was
reached to allocate an additional 20 million euros.

Joined in the preparation of the draft long-term state strategy
\"Lithuania 2050\".

### Ministry of Education, Science and Sports of the Republic of Lithuania

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

During the reference period, it was contributed to raising and examining
various issues, participated in meetings and provided suggestions for
the improvement of higher education:

1. Participated in meetings with EBPO experts to refine the missions of
   Lithuanian research and study institutions.
2. Involved in the activities of the Working Group on Measures to
   Prevent Student Dropouts in order to develop systematic measures to
   monitor risks and reduce drop-out rates in the country\'s higher
   education institutions.
3. Contributed to the development of the model of incentive financing
   for higher education institutions for the quality of studies and
   specific indicators, which will be the basis of the incentive system
   and will form the priorities of higher education institutions for
   quality improvement.
4. Participates in the planning of the procedure for admission of
   Ukrainian citizens to higher education institutions, submitted
   proposals on the improvement of the legal status of foreigners.
5. Proposals to renew the system of state-supported loans have been
   submitted, attention has been paid to the issue and the proposal for
   the improvement of the system is being prepared together with the
   State Studies Fund.
6. Remarks were made from the students\' perspective regarding the
   implementation of the European student card (ESC) initiative in
   Lithuania.
7. Proposals have been submitted and the procedure for financing
   students\' civic, scientific, entrepreneurial, creative and sports
   projects has been updated.
8. At the same time, a project of an alternative path to higher
   education was formed.
9. Proposals have been made to expand the circle of persons receiving
   disability scholarships and to combine several existing types of
   scholarships by reducing the administrative burden on students.

### Working group on updating the funding model for Higher education in Ministry of Education, Science and Sports

_Student representatives - Justas Kvedaravičius, Neda Žutautaitė_

The working group was convened to update the funding model of higher
education institutions, to refine the goals of higher education
institutions, to evaluate the funding and evaluation model of research
and experimental development, and to improve the process of planning and
admitting state-funded places. organization of admission through a
common admission system and providing more opportunities for higher
education institutions to select students.

The proposals prepared in the working group on the harmonization of
requirements for applicants to funded by state and not funded by state
places, the establishment of minimum criteria and the financing of
higher education institutions for study results have been approved and
will enter into force from 2024.

### Working group on the development of a plan for the social dimension in Ministry of Education, Science and Sports

_Student representatives - Justas Kvedaravičius, Ieva Budreikaitė, Neda Žutautaitė_

The preparation of a plan for the social dimension in higher education
has been initiated, with the previous proposal of VU SR including it in
the plan for the implementation of the provisions of the Government
Program.

Collected foreign experience in the preparation of social dimension
plans, data and analysis of the current situation of less represented
groups in Lithuania. Existing measures and barriers faced by less
represented groups are analyzed. An initial version of the plan has been
prepared and will be submitted to the Government for public consultation
in the near future.

### Working group on the year 2022 of Lithuanian universities in Ministry of Education, Science and Sports

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania has declared 2022 the Year of
Lithuanian Universities. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sports
has set up a working group to plan festive events and initiatives.

The working group decided to publish an electronic publication
"Lithuanian Universities" on the occasion of the University Year, which
reflects the origins, development and contribution of Lithuanian
universities to the creation and maintenance of an independent state,
the 100th anniversary of the University of Lithuania, the international
conference "Higher education: achievements, challenges and
opportunities", The Baltic Student Song and Dance Festival "Gaudeamus
2022", the virtual exhibition "Science Light" and a series of open
lectures on topics relevant to society offered by VU SR.

### Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Lithuania

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

A proposal on the legal status of aliens has been submitted to the
Ministry of the Interior, abolishing the restriction of a maximum of 20
hours per week for foreigners studying for undergraduate studies,
proposing to extend the issuance of a temporary residence permit for the
entire study period and an additional 6 months to allow him to remain in
the country after his application for a residence permit has expired.
Abolish the restriction on the acquisition of at least 40 study credits
per year, which currently creates unequal opportunities to choose
between different forms of study and individual study plans. Provide the
right of minor Ukrainian asylum seekers to study in higher education.
Initiate the guarantee of compulsory health insurance for the study
period for all foreign students.

### Ministry of Health of the Republic of Lithuania

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė, Kamilė Marcinkevičiūtė_

Participated in Ministry of Health working groups and meetings on the
state of psychological health in Lithuanian higher education
institutions and among young people, expressed the main observations and
problems.

A strictly opposing position was expressed regarding the initiative of
the Seimas Committee on Health Affairs to restrict the free choice of
residents after studies by providing for employment in public personal
health care institutions of Lithuania for several years after
graduation.

The VU Residents\' Council has actively participated in the process of
developing a step-by-step competency model in order to improve the
quality of residency studies and ensure international quality standards
in medical studies. Contributed to the discussion of the duration of
residency study programs, the introduction of indicators of the minimum
duration of professional practice and the functions of a new resident
mentor. Participates in discussions on the planned review of residents\'
pay in the Law on Medical Practice.

In the first month of study, when contact studies at the University were
subject to the passport requirement, we submitted a proposal for free
testing of students for coronavirus. Such a resolution was implemented.

### State order for training of national health system specialists (VUK)

_Student representative in the State Commission Commission formed by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Lithuania - Giedrė Mikulėnaitė_

During the reference period, meetings were attended and proposals were
submitted to the Ministry of Health regarding the number of health
system specialists for the 2022-2023 school year. Almost 140 additional
places have been established for state-funded undergraduate nursing and
midwifery and integrated medicine study programs. Vilnius University has
a total of 181 places for medicine and 5 places for dentistry. The
decisions were made for the first time by the deadline specified in the
Law on Science and Studies, finally giving graduates not one but five
months to know about future residencies and plan for their future. 110
places for medical residencies and 12 places for dental residencies are
provided for all non-state-funded residencies.

### Mental Health Council

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

During the reference period, the meetings of the Mental Health Promotion
Council were attended. Together with representatives of STRATA, the
World Bank laboratory, the Department of Youth Affairs and other youth
organizations, research and experiences were shared on how the mental
health situation is changing both in Lithuanian schools and universities
and what challenges still exist. A post was shared from the VU SR side.
He was involved in further sessions of the Mental Health Promotion
Council.

### Centre for Quality Assessment of Studies (CQAS)

_Student representatives - Neda Žutautaitė, Arnoldas Solovjovas, Justas Kvedaravičius_

The Student Forum is an informal working group of the Centre for Quality
Assessment in Higher Education, which is attended by representatives of
organisations representing the interests of lithuanian higher education
students.

During the reference period, a meeting of the Student Forum was held,
where the quality of studies was discussed from the perspective of study
participants – students, lecturers. Attention was paid to the Report of
the National Audit, which notes that in Lithuanian higher education
institutions students\' opinion on the quality of studies is not
sufficiently heard. The development of the career path of lecturers and
ensuring didactic competences and their significance for the quality of
studies were discussed.

Participated in CQAS international conference on the development of the
quality of studies \"Development of external quality assurance: lessons
and insights for the future\" round table discussion representing the
opinion of students.

In the composition of CQAS, the representative of the students delegated
by VU SR is involved in the activities of the Higher Education
Assessment Commission. The Commission shall consider the conclusions of
the external evaluation of the activities of higher education
institutions submitted by international evaluation experts. During the
meetings held during the academic year 2021/2022, the conclusions
prepared by experts on 11 different higher education institutions in
Lithuania were discussed.

Student representatives at the University contributed to the preparation
of the University\'s self-analysis in preparation for the Institutional
Evaluation, became involved in the evaluations of study fields by
preparing self-analyses of study fields and participating in meetings
with experts, to which all students of the University are invited to
participate.

### Conference of Rectors of Lithuanian Universities (CRLU)

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

The assessment of the status of the Agreement on the Promotion of Mental
Health in Lithuanian Higher Education Institutions in Universities was
involved. He participated in the study committee on issues relevant to
students.

The agenda of the upcoming CRLU meeting includes the issue of students\'
scientific activities in Lithuanian universities, during which the
research of scientific activities carried out by VU SA will be presented
and recommendations for measures to promote students\' scientific
activities in universities will be presented.

### Research Council of Lithuania (RCL)

_Student representative - Neda Žutautaitė_

During the reference period, the RCL was contacted for support for
scientific events organized by students in order to ensure that
high-level scientific events organized by students would be encouraged
and financed regardless of which course or cycle students organize them.
The RCL was encouraged to expand the possibilities of receiving support
and the current conditions for the financing of scientific events
organized by students.

## Representation in the city government

### Vilnius City Municipality and Youth Council

_Student representatives – Neda Žutautaitė, Aistė Rinkevičiūtė_

During the reference period, Vilnius city municipality was repeatedly
approached for the issue of potassium iodide tablets to young people
residing in Vilnius, but who did not necessarily declare their place of
residence in this city.
