# Papers

## 2021-05-31, On the Law on Science and Studies No. XI-242 76, 82, 82(1) draft amendment and supplement of Article 82(2)

During the reference period, VU SR submitted proposals to the Law on
Science and Studies no. Article XI-242,76, 82, 82(1) for the draft
amendment and supplement of Article 82(2) aimed at establishing a basis
for granting financial assistance to people with disabilities. The
proposed corrections relate to improved accessibility of centralized
support and the lack of change. Attention was also paid to the
difference and impact of disabilities on studies, the inability to use
part of the income to increase the accessibility of studies and the
environment (teachers\' education, infrastructure changes), and their
allocation only with a certain level of capacity for work, without
taking into account the collision of those with higher capacity for work
with problems of similar thinking. It is proposed to provide financial
support in the amount of 8-18 basic social benefits (BSB), with a
working capacity limit of 55% or more. In the light of the research
carried out, it is proposed to abolish the condition for not receiving a
scholarship in relation to academic achievement, specifically academic
debts, since social assistance should be based on needs and social
situation, not academic achievements.

## 2021-06-08, On the draft amendment of Articles No XI-242 46, 59 and 77 of the Law on Science and Studies

VU SR submitted proposals for a draft amendment of Articles No XI-242
46, 59 and 77 of the Law on Science and Studies, in support of the
submitted proposal to unify the requirements for those entering
state-funded and unfunded places. However, aspects of taking into
account the proper preparation of higher education and equal access to
it in the implementation of changes in order to reduce the difficulties
caused by social exclusion in achieving admission requirements were
highlighted. The proposal to establish funding according to certain
study fields was not approved, noting that the need for state
specialists would not limit the free choice of applicants.

## 2021-09-24, Regarding the Law of the Republic of Lithuania on Science and Studies No. X-242 4, 9, 53, 56, 59, 74, 77 and the Law on Education of the Republic of Lithuania No. I-1489 draft law amending Articles 2, 11, 24, 38 and 47

During the reporting period, VU SR responded to the amendments to the
Law of the Republic of Lithuania on Science and Studies No. X-242 4, 9,
53, 56, 59, 74, 77 and the Law on Education of the Republic of Lithuania
No. I-1489 A draft law amending Articles 2, 11, 24, 38 and 47, which
provides for changes to define and provide for projects which reduce the
social dimension in higher education but which do not distribute support
to less well-represented groups. The harmonization of the conditions for
accession was accepted, but in the light of the recommendations made
during the working groups of the European Higher Education Area, a
remark was made to the existence of the definition of the social
dimension in the law, noting the changing definition in the Bologna
Process documents over the years. The proposed definition is given and
it has been noted that most of the proposals were rejected due to their
non-compliance with the principles of the development of the social
dimension.

## 2021-09-28, Regarding the Law on Science and Studies no. XI-242 Bill No. 1 amending Articles 9, 59, 74, 76, 77, 82 and 83 draft law No. XIVP-562 and Education Act no. I-1489 Draft Law amending Article 11 draft law No. XIVP-563

The proposals of VU SR in the Seimas Committee on Education and Science
on the Law on Science and Studies No. XI-242 amending Articles 9, 59,
74, 76, 77, 82 and 83 draft law No. XIVP-562 and Education Act No.
I-1489 Article 11 draft law No. XIVP-563, which proposes amendments
related to the financing of higher education institutions, equalization
of admission conditions, and different levels of preparation for
admission to colleges and universities. It was accepted and promoted to
ensure a level playing field for applicants, taking into account the gap
between pupils with low socioeconomic status. It is proposed to have
clear assessment criteria for the development and promotion of funding
for higher education institutions, ensuring proper investment in the
accessibility and quality of studies. The importance of applying and
coordinating measures to improve the social dimension and accessibility
together with the draft amendment of this Law is stressed.

## 2021-10-28, On the draft law amending Article No. XI-242 77 of the Law on Science and Studies No. XIVP-1001

During the reporting period VU SR together with the Association of Young
Doctors, the VU MF Resident Council, LSMU SR, LSMU Resident Council and
the Lithuanian Medical Students\' Association responded to the draft
amendment of the Law on Science and Studies, registered by the Seimas of
the Republic of Lithuania, which aims to ensure that doctors who have
completed their residency studies should work in public Lithuanian
personal health care institutions for several years after graduation. In
writing, it was proposed to reject the amendments and to draw attention
to the contradiction of free choice and the reference to unfounded facts
that could potentially cause harm to the health system. It was noted
that the problem of the shortage of specialists in the regions is
relevant and to be solved, but not by means of funding of studies, but
in order to achieve systemic solutions to the problem.

## 2021-10-29, On the draft state budget for education, science and sport for 2022

VU SR submitted proposals for the state budget education, science and
sports project, noting the lack of the amount allocated for research and
experimental development (RED) activities and paying attention to the
allocation of part of the funds for the promotion of students\' RED
activities in order to achieve the planned indicators.

## 2022-04-12, On support for scientific events organized by students

VU SR and VU submitted proposals to the Research Council of Lithuania to
amend the item \"Description of the Procedure for Granting Support to
Academic Associations\" related to the restrictions granted by support
in order to increase the support granted to student organizations to
organize high-level scientific events regardless of the course or stage,
thus providing opportunities for them to expand and attract more
participants.
