---
outline: deep
---

# Congratulations

## Government of the Republic of Lithuania

![Vyriausybė](/img/sveikinimai/MP-portretas.jpg)

Dear students of Vilnius University,

The past year and the beginning of this year have again brought great,
previously unexplored challenges. For three years now, we have been
living in a climate of global uncertainty and are learning to do the
best we can – we are looking for solutions, trying to see the
possibilities of each situation and reacting quickly to change, and at
the same time we do not forget. raise questions that have matured for a
long time and look for constructive solutions.

The determined students of Vilnius University are very delightful –
when faced with difficulties, you have not been left behind, you are not
left behind, you are not passive observers, but you yourself are
constantly looking for ways and suggesting how your community can
contribute to solving relevant problems.

By smoothly tackling challenges, at the same time you consistently raise
issues relevant to the student and society as a whole, related to
ensuring the quality of studies, paying attention to the weight of
students\' voice in the study process, possibilities of access to higher
education through the prism of the social dimension. I am very glad that
when you talk about improving the quality of studies, you, as a
Students' Representation, develop the topic of academic honesty and act
to ensure it, for example, you have created and implemented the
\"Sąžiningai\" program for many years. You promote awareness and
encourage students to independently manage and personalize their study
plans. Your initiative to talk about the integration of students with
disabilities from their own perspective is very welcome. On the one
hand, the bureaucratic system needs to be improved, and on the other
hand, the ability of the community to accept students with various needs
is no less significant and your emphasis on the ability of the community
to accept students with different needs. Thank you also for actively
contributing to the development and improvement of the concept of the
social dimension, analyzing how to involve students in scientific
projects, deciding what can be done to ensure that doctoral studies meet
the expectations of young scientists, and after graduation They could
strengthen Lithuanian science and successfully join the ranks of the
Lithuanian scientific community.

Thank you for your ideas and constructive cooperation in finding the
best solutions to make studies accessible to everyone who wants to
follow the academic path and inspire you to never stop learning and look
curiously at the world.

Prime Minister of the Republic of Lithuania

**Ingrida Šimonytė**

## LR Ministry of Education, Science and Sport

![LR ŠMSM](/img/sveikinimai/JurgitaSiugzdiniene.jpg)

Dear students,

I am glad that the Vilnius University Students' Representation is
characterized by unfailing activity and citizenship, the ability to act
and unite. At this turbulent time, you have put in a huge deposit to
provide as much clarity and encouragement as possible to your community.
I believe that you will be happy to welcome those who are experiencing
the most at the moment – let\'s do our best to make Ukrainians in a
brotherly country feel welcome, feel safe.

I wish you to continue your meaningful work and fully improve, to
develop not only the ability to adapt to new challenges, but also the
stubbornness to find effective ways to solve them. Despite a sense of
uncertainty.

I warmly congratulate you on the significant achievements of the past
year and hope that you will not stop showing youthful courage and
solidarity with today\'s freedom fighters.

Minister for Education, Science and Sport

**Jurgita Šiugždinienė**

## Committee on Education and Science of the Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania

![](/img/sveikinimai/zukauskas.jpg)

Dear students,

congratulations on another year of successful work! Your activity in
finding the best solutions turns into energy that encourages you to move
forward, look deeper, look for more perfect formulas for change. The
past few years have been marked by extraordinary challenges, but I
admire your focus, bold and youthful initiatives that inspire and leave
you indifferent. Continue the work you have started, boldly and
responsibly take on new ones! Protect and love dear Lithuania, be proud
of the past of your homeland and build a prosperous future by following
the path of educational and scientific progress! I wish you the
determination and energy to achieve leadership and professionalism in
your fields and the fulfillment of noble aspirations!

**Prof. Artūras Žukauskas**

Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science

## Vilnius University Rector

![](/img/sveikinimai/rektorius.jpg)

Dear students,

The year has been challenging and full of global challenges that affect
all of our lives. I believe that they have further strengthened the role
of the University and revealed its essence. It is at the University that
ideas are born and developed that create, support the state and society.
University frees you to think independently and act socially. The
university provides the tools and conditions to make sense of itself.
And even becomes a refuge from adversity and misfortune.

I would like to sincerely welcome the fact that the students of Vilnius
University, both in the face of the pandemic and the war in Ukraine,
demonstrated not only solidarity, but also became real leaders of
society. Thanks to you, the University turns the declared values into
real works. Students became volunteers, supporters, mentors, protesters,
support voters, dealers, and at the same time remained active and
significant members of the academic community.

I congratulate the Students\' Representative Office of Vilnius
University, which expresses itself not only as an active part of the
community, but also as a source of new ideas, academic and social
activity and respectful dialogue. I believe that the annual
self-evaluation of the works will be an opportunity not only to enjoy
what has been done, but also to appreciate what else you can do for the
University, society, the state, which means for your own good.

It is important that the voice of students is heard even more widely not
only at the University, but also in society. It is banal to repeat
certain truths, but we keep repeating them because we are convinced of
their legitimacy. I repeat, you are the future. It is our responsibility
to help you to rise up, to find the motivation and courage to fulfil our
ambitions.

I wish to continue to successfully represent the University and its
students, to develop ideas and to prepare proposals that increase the
common good of all of us.

Rector of Vilnius university

**Prof. Rimvydas Petrauskas**

## Vilniaus University Senate

![](/img/sveikinimai/senato-pirmininke.jpg)

Dear students of Vilnius University,

The first European universities established in Italy, Bologna and Padua
are approaching the millennium, and some of the new ones are just
counting down their first decades, the history of Vilnius University
gives us an honorable place at the very center of European development.
We will soon be celebrating the 445th anniversary of our Alma Mater, so
for the fifth century Vilnius University is creating the history of
Lithuania by ageing once and for a generation.

For our university, the goddess of history, Klio, has led radical
changes and experiences that we need to constantly reflect on and
appreciate in order to creatively develop her intellectual identity. The
2021-2022 school year was marked by the pandemic, the beginning of
hostilities in Ukraine, which led to vigilance, concentration and
determination. As the ancient Greek thinker Thucydides observed, history
is the truest form of practical philosophy.

The Senate of Vilnius University, formed in 2018, is leaving its term of
office in the spring semester of 2022. Thanking the students operating
in the Senate and other academic and organizational fields of Vilnius
Alma Mater, I would like to emphasize that their responsibility,
sensitivity and attentiveness in solving issues relevant to the whole
community are an important part of the self-government of our
University, which must be developed and nurtured. Therefore, I wish
every student of Vilnius University to remain a member of a
spirit-raising community for the rest of their lives, to realize as many
of their goals as possible and to cherish with hope and love the face of
a University dear to all of us, which was created even in the most
difficult times before us and will remain after us.

Chairwoman of the VU Senate

**Prof. Dainora Pociūtė-Abukevičienė**

## Vilniaus University Council

![](/img/sveikinimai/Radzeviciene.5M5A1668r_3.jpg)

Dear colleagues,

Another year of tension and challenge. I dare say that the year of
science and learning was not only for our Alma mater students'
community, but also for society as a whole. Together we have transformed
the forms of work and learning, clarified our values and social
position, and together we created a modern and inclusive Vilnius
University. It is good to see that the students were active and mature
participants and partners of all these transformations.

On behalf of the entire VU Council, I thank you all for your
partnership, initiative and volunteering. With all your youthful energy,
continue to build your university – an international community based on
mutual respect, where there is a dialogue between different generations,
where science and studies combine with meaningful leisure and social
responsibility and volunteering.

**Eglė Radzevičienė**

Head of Vilnius University Council

## Vilniaus University Library

![](/img/sveikinimai/Kriviene.biblioteka.jpg){.carousel-img-2}

Dear students,

You, the largest and most dynamic part of the Vilnius University
community, are the main visitors to our library. Here you study, work,
make acquaintances, communicate. I am very pleased with your interest in
what the library does and what it lives for. We, the library staff, are
sincerely grateful for the openly based cooperation and constructive
dialogue between our organizations.

The active involvement of VU SR representatives in the preparation of
the 2022-2025 Library Strategic Action Plan has helped us to generate
the areas on which we will focus on improving the informational study
environment at the most recent time. This is a response to the
individual information needs of consumers, strengthening the activities
of the library as an information / academic literacy center, as well as
a space that unites the Universite community, etc. The thoughts of the
President of VU SR, expressed in the discussion on the issue of values,
made a significant contribution to finding a common solution on which
way we could synchronize the values of the organization (in this case,
the University) and its structural unit (in this case, the Library).

The Library is grateful to you for encouraging you to improve, for not
only for not only evaluating its work, but also for offering what and
how to do so that information services and the information environment
meet the expectations of service users as much as possible. During the
reporting period of VU SR, the Library, using the consumer opinion
research tool LibQual, which is recognized and widely used in the world
of information institutions, conducted an extended consumer survey for
the first time. When researching the opinion of users, I was surprised
and was also pleased with the huge number of comments from those who
filled out the questionnaires, confirming the fact that the library
cares about you. We sincerely thank you for the help in the publication
of the LibQual poll, the activism in expressing our opinion and the
feedback given.

Young people are always in the avant-garde of the genealogy of
innovations and their application, therefore, the involvement of the
representative of VU SR in the working group on the preparation of the
Open Science Policy Guidelines was both expected and very successful:
significant contributions were made to the preparation of this document
and the emergence of the topic of open teaching / resources in it.

Very soon you will join Lithuanian or foreign businesses, state
institutions or academic activities. I have no doubt that the
managerial, civic and social responsibility experience gained by VU SR,
as well as the established contacts will help you along the path of
professional career and personal life. I wish I never lost touch with my
Alma Mater. You are and will be welcome at the Library!

**Irena Krivienė**

General Director of VU Library

## Ombudswoman for academic ethics and procedures

![](/img/sveikinimai/dr.-Loreta-Tauginienė.MART1397B.jpg)

Dear students,

You persistently, actively and consistently promote adherence to the
principles of academic ethics and thus contribute to the quality of
studies. You bring innovations that comprehensively change the culture
of academic ethics. Academic ethics is especially fostered through
direct education and talking to the academic community. Invitation for
students to take a more active interest in the specific course
\"Academic Ethics\", preparation of methodological material, openness to
consultations and other initiatives are some examples when your
involvement is significant. The most important thing is to move forward
creatively and boldly – this is how changes in the Lithuanian study and
science system become possible.

I appreciate your contribution and invite you to work together towards
international standards of academic ethics.

Unitedly For the Future of Students!

Ombudswoman for academic ethics and procedures

**dr. Loreta Tauginienė**

## Vilnius City Municipality

![](/img/sveikinimai/Simasius.jpeg)

Dear students,

The first steps of your independent life are once again tested by
complex challenges. The restrictions of the coronavirus pandemic have
been replaced by a confrontation with the shocking Russian aggression.

And here society especially needs your positivity, courage and, most
importantly, real involvement. Share information, explain to the
doubters, create the state and the future in which you want to live.

And Vilnius will always be yours – established after studying or
deciding to look abroad after studying. We look forward to coming back.

Mayor of Vilnius

**Remigijus Šimašius**

## Knowledge Economy Forum

![](/img/sveikinimai/arminas_2021_profilis.jpg)

VU SR,

congratulations on a year full of results! VU SR is visible and heard at
the national level - funding for higher education, improving the
situation of students, issues of the social dimension - no decisions are
made without you. You are invited to read reports as experts. You are
actively involved in the activities of the Arqus University Alliance.
You are the main force pushing the University to move to a more Western
model of study organization, allowing students to choose at least 60
credits on their own.

It is great to see that you\'ve created good conditions for students to
participate, and the range of PCP is expanding. It is welcome that you
have started to implement a culture of reflection in the organization
(although it will take time to become a reality), you have integrated a
new unit from Šiauliai. And you have managed to achieve all this in the
context of a pandemic that has not yet ended and the war that began a
few months ago. What\'s more, you\'ve been able to react quickly to a
situation and offer help to those who need it most.

Last year was hard. This year has been difficult. The coming years will
not be easier either. I have five tips that are necessary for VU SR to
continue to grow as an organization and solve even more student
problems:

Openness, responsibility, quality of performance, unity and improvement.
Never forget!

Unitedly,

**Arminas Varanauskas**

## Research Council of Lithuania

![](/img/sveikinimai/Romas-LMT-9.jpeg)

Dear students,

Thank you for your creativity, public-spirited actions, and
determination to complete a broad-based university education. These are
also your first steps in building the new knowledge that will contribute
to our competitiveness as a country. That's also the essence of having
high quality degree courses.

This year we saw an increase in funding of research and experimental
(social, cultural) development. A portion of the funding is allocated to
the summer research in addition to the term time projects funded by the
Research Council of Lithuania. I hope it will encourage you to further
engage in research and work on your expertise. I am particularly glad to
see that Vilnius University students are some of the most active in
these research projects.

Your never-ending determination and energy brings me joy. I hope you
will treasure these qualities for the bright future of our country. Best
of luck in your future endeavors, keep your energy levels high.

_Gaudeamus igitur, iuvenes dum sumus!_

Chairman of the Research Council of Lithuania

**Prof. Romas Baronas**
:::
